a-frog-in-india-has-a-mushroom-sprouting-out-of-it-researchers-have-never-seen-anything-like-it: 
a frog in india has a mushroom sprouting out of it. researchers have never seen anything like it
by taylor nicioli, cnn
(cnn) — when observing a hoard of golden-backed frogs at a roadside pond in karnataka, india, a group of naturalists noticed something odd about one of the amphibians — the animal had a tiny mushroom sprouting out of its side.
how the seemingly healthy frog came to grow its fungi companion — an occurrence that’s never been documented before — has left scientists baffled, according to a note published in january in the journal reptiles and amphibians.
“when i first observed the frog with the mushroom, i was amazed and intrigued by the sight,” said lohit y t, a rivers and wetlands specialist with world wildlife fund-india in bengaluru, via email. y t was a part of the group that discovered the frog. “my thought was to document it, as this phenomenon is something we have never heard of. we just wanted this to be a rare incident and not a dangerous phenomenon for the frog.”
the species — known as rao’s intermediate golden-backed frog, or the scientific name hylarana intermedia — is found in abundance in the southwestern indian states of karnataka and kerala. the frogs are small, growing to be only up to 2.9 inches (7.4 centimeters) in length.
as the naturalists watched the frog with the fungal growth, the animal moved from the center of the twig it sat upon to the very tip, turning around and changing positions, but the mushroom remained perfectly in place, y t said. the group did not touch the frog.
the authors discovered the amphibian in june 2023 and did not collect it, so neither the cause of the phenomenon nor the fate of the frog is known.
but through pictures, mycologists later identified the mushroom growing out of the frog’s flank as a common bonnet, part of the mycena genus, a type of fungi that mostly grows on rotting wood from dead trees, the authors wrote in the published paper. the fungus is a saprotrophic decomposer, a mushroom that typically gets its nutrients from dead or decaying organic matter — but a 2023 study found the mushroom could evolve to thrive on living plants as well.
the 2023 study further suggested that the mycena fungus could develop to have a symbiotic relationship with living plants or trees, meaning that both the plant and the fungus growing on it would benefit from the arrangement — the fungi would both take nutrients from and transfer them to the plant host. in trees, mycena could be helpful by pruning dead branches, the authors added.
the prognosis of the frog with the mushroom hitchhiker is unknown, but there are a handful of theories as to the cause of its condition.
fate of the mushroom frog
upon first seeing the report of the frog with a mushroom attached to its flank, alyssa wetterau kaganer, a postdoctoral associate in the department of public and ecosystem health at the cornell university college of veterinary medicine, found the discovery fascinating.
“fungi are dynamic organisms that adapt to changes in their environment, and with exposure to new potential hosts in different environments or climates they may grow in places we hadn’t previously expected,” she said in an email.
while it is difficult to predict the fate of the frog without further study of its condition, it is possible that “an otherwise healthy frog may be able to withstand mild colonization of its skin by this fungus without any adverse health effects,” kaganer said. fungal infections in frogs are very common, however, and if the mushroom were to “grow extensively on the skin or burrow within the animal’s body, the animal may develop signs of a fungal disease,” she added. kaganer was not involved with the discovery.
there are many types of fungi that can infect frogs, and it is possible there are fungus-frog interactions yet to be discovered. a frog with signs of fungal disease, such as “altered behavior of the frog” or “skin damage including ulceration or tumor-like nodules,” has an infection that can often result in death for at least some of the infected animals, kaganer said.
anything out of the ordinary, including a fungal growth like this, is of concern for frog species, said karthikeyan vasudevan, chief scientist for the laboratory for the conservation of endangered species at the centre for cellular and molecular biology in telangana, india. vasudevan was not involved with the discovery and was also surprised by the find.
“sick animals in the wild have very little chance of survival. to notice a sick animal is difficult, as they die or get eaten up quickly. therefore, something like this is interesting and should be followed up with observations and screening of frogs,” vasudevan said in an email.
initially, vasudevan had thought the mushroom was stuck on the frog’s skin rather than a growth, but photos of the critter convinced him otherwise. “it is indeed the case of a live mushroom on a live frog,” vasudevan said. “but one of the possibilities is that there is a small piece of woody debris under the skin of the frog after it got lodged in the skin and it has sprouted a mushroom from it.”
chytrid disease caused by fungus
india is currently facing an epidemic of a frog-killing disease known as chytridiomycosis, a fungal infection that affects more than 700 species of amphibians worldwide. the disease has been observed in low levels in all the frog hotspots across india, the authors of the new note wrote.
chytrid disease is an example of a common amphibian and fungi interaction. but the authors do not know whether it is related to this discovery, y t said.
“this specific type of mushroom is not closely related to the species of fungus that cause chytridiomycosis, so i am not concerned that this mushroom is a direct sign of chytridiomycosis,” said kaganer, who studies the disease. “however, it is possible that a frog with mycena might have altered susceptibility to a chytrid infection.”
the frog with the mushroom in its side could either have an increase in susceptibility to chytridiomycosis from being compromised by the mycena, or it could be more immune “because the mycena has kicked the frog’s immune system into high gear,” she added.
“we don’t have any hope of pursuing the frog, as this is not a common phenomenon,” y t said. the authors will visit the spot again during the next monsoon season, when the weather is warm and rainy and the frogs are most abundant, he added.
“if we manage to find it, it’ll be great,” y t said. “the spot has been frequented by many enthusiasts and experts alike. it would be great if some researcher gets their hands on it and can further the investigation, but again, it’s all highly unlikely to happen.”
the-cnn-wire
™ & © 2024 cable news network, inc., a warner bros. discovery company. all rights reserved.
###
FNFQD3GJNRH7BA5QFKW66IXQDE: 
gwinnett county, ga. — a student is recovering and a teenage boy is in police custody after police and school leaders said he allegedly stabbed another student in the bathroom at brookwood high school.
police say he is charged with disruption of school, aggravated assault, and weapons on school property.
channel 2 action news blurred his face because he is a juvenile.
[download: free wsb-tv news app for alerts as news breaks]
“shortly after 10:15 this morning, school administrators were walking down the hall and they heard a commotion in the restroom. when they went in they found a student who suffered several injuries to his body. apparently, it looked like he was stabbed,” said bernard watson with gwinnett county public schools.
the suspect ran away after the incident.
“within 30-35 minutes of this happening, gwinnett county police arrested the suspect who is again a student at the school. later on, they found a knife,” said watson.
“it was a little concerning,” said jason moore, a parent.
that was moore’s initial thought when he heard what was going on at brookwood high school.
he has three children in the school system and two of his kids are brookwood high students. he believes this is an isolated incident.
“we have a pretty good staff here. the principal is a very good and caring principal. as long as his administration is here, i’m not too worried about what’s going on here in the walls of brookwood,” said moore.
trending stories:
- officers indicted for shooting unarmed dekalb man in his home turn themselves in at jail
- student found stabbed in gwinnett high school bathroom, rushed to hospital, district says
- dekalb man says squatters changed his house’s locks while he was away caring for sick wife
but he is concerned about school violence district-wide.
“that’s one thing i’m concerned about with the school board, in years past, like last year, kids would get into fights and stab students. within a few weeks, they would be allowed to come back into the school system.”
the district says they’re taking a deeper look at school safety in general.
“this is a very unfortunate incident and administrators are already reviewing the safety measures that we have in place to ensure that something like this doesn’t happen again,” said watson.
the district is not identifying the victim or suspect.
[sign up: wsb-tv daily headlines newsletter]
in other news:
©2023 cox media group
###
california-mental-health-care-policy: 
california’s proposition 1 – the only statewide measure on the ballot – would significantly restructure california’s mental health system.
it is also one of the most complex and convoluted measures voters have had to decide on in recent years. the full text of the proposition in the state’s 112-page voter guide takes up 68 pages.
the measure has two parts. first, it would raise $6.4bn over 20 years to build more housing and treatment facilities for people with mental health and substance use disorders. it would also enact new requirements on how the state’s mental health budget would be spent – redirecting about a third toward housing and rental assistance for unhoused people with serious mental illness or addiction, and another 35% toward treatments for that population.
california’s governor, gavin newsom, who proposed the measure as a crucial part of his plans to solve the state’s dire homelessness crisis, has said it would “prioritise getting people off the streets, out of tents and into treatment”. opponents, including disability rights activists, mental health advocates and the american civil liberties union, countered that it would take money away from community-based preventative mental health programs to finance locked-door psychiatric institutions and involuntary treatment.
“it’s good politics, as newsom positions himself to run for president in 2028,” said samuel jain, a senior policy attorney for disability rights california, an advocacy group. “it’s not good policy.”
the bond measure was not controversial until late last year, when last-minute amendments to the bill placing it on the ballot stripped language preventing the funds from being used on involuntary confinements. the changes came hours before it was too late to change the legislation, said jain, who added: “it came as a really big surprise.”
the result, jain said, was a hefty, opaque ballot measure that lumps housing for veterans and unhoused people and treatment programs for people with severe mental illness and substance use disorders alongside funding for programs that could facilitate coerced institutionalisation.
critics have also pointed out that the $6.4bn bond would fund only about 4,350 new homes for people, according to the state legislative analyst’s office – which is hardly enough to shelter california’s estimated 180,000 unhoused people.
meanwhile, the yes on prop 1 campaign, backed by healthcare companies such as sutter health and kaiser permanente and unions backing the state’s prison guards and construction workers, have amassed about $14.3m to sell the measure, focusing on how the program would help veterans and the unhoused. the no campaign has raised just about $1,000, according to campaign finance records.
but taken along with other major mental health programs that newsom and legislators have championed, advocates worry that prop 1 will further efforts to institutionalise and lock away unhoused people. the governor’s other landmark mental health reforms include the care court program, which will empower families, healthcare providers and outreach workers to ask state courts to compel people with certain severe mental disorders into treatment programs designated by local governments, and sb43, which expands the group of people who can be placed in involuntary psychiatric holds or forced to undergo medical treatment to include people with serious mental health and substance use disorders who are deemed unable to provide for their own personal safety or medical care.
“in the 1960s, we began the process of shutting down our psychiatric hospitals,” newsom said at a thursday rally promoting the proposition. but as the state got rid of its psychiatric beds, it did not provide enough investment in community programs and care homes as alternative treatments, he continued, saying: “is it any surprise what we’re experiencing and those that are struggling and suffering are experiencing? it’s because of our neglect.”
building more psychiatric beds and treatment facilities may be a comfort to families who have struggled to help relatives with severe mental conditions and substance use disorders, newsom and other supporters say. but mental health providers and researchers warn that if prop 1 facilitates involuntary or coerced care, it could ultimately be counterproductive.
“few who review the existing evidence conclude that on balance, involuntary treatment improves the lives of those who experience it,” said david cohen, a professor of social welfare at the university of california, los angeles, and a former social worker. “it’s literally a band-aid solution.”
being coerced or forced into care can traumatise people who are already contending with deep traumas, he explained. “being deprived of freedom is maddening. being robbed of credibility is humiliating,” he said. though hospitalization or institutionalisation are often used to keep suicidal people safe, counterintuitively, studies have found that such patients may be at heightened risk of self-harm after being discharged.
increasing avenues for institutionalisation and building more locked-door psychiatric and behavioural health facilities could also disproportionately harm black californians and other californians of color, said jerel ezell, an assistant professor of community health sciences at uc berkeley. black people, who make up about 6% of california’s general population, account for 26% of the unhoused population. “and black people are overdiagnosed with schizophrenia and other related conditions,” he said. “they’re also more stigmatised or more criminalised.”
with prop 1 funding, the state could expand its capacity to clear the streets of the most visibly unwell unhoused people, and funnel them to programs that could do more harm than good. “it’s an optics thing,” he said. “it looks good, to say we’re doing something.” but long term, much more housing and voluntary, preventive programs as well as asylum spaces for drug users are what people really need to recover, he said.
many of the biggest opponents of prop 1 are local governments and health workers who worry it will shutter local, community-based, early intervention programs, including ones that provide care for immigrant communities, communities of color and unhoused people.
decisions about which funding would be redirected would be made by counties if the measure passed, and nobody knows how much money would be cut from which programs. proponents of prop 1 argue that those early intervention programs could draw more funding from medi-cal, the state’s public health program for lower-income residents, which has recently been expanded.
rural placer county, where supervisors voted to oppose the measure, would redirect about $5m from existing mental health and prevention services that are already very scarce.
“proposition 1 is going to put more money towards building these expensive, locked psychiatric institutions. it’s going to provide grants to for-profit hospitals to actually build those facilities,” jain said. “and in turn, it’s going to defund cost-effective mental health services in the community.”
###
ph-eyes-triangular-pact-with-india-japan: 
ph eyes ‘triangular’ pact with india, japan
the philippine government is exploring the potential of a “triangular cooperation” with japan and india to strengthen the security and economic sectors for peace and stability in the indo-pacific region.
foreign undersecretary theresa lazaro on friday said a partnership among the three countries would not only provide collaboration in the field of security but also boost economic and development opportunities that would be “directly felt by the people.”
against china agenda
“the prospect for triangular cooperation between the philippines, india and japan falls neatly into this narrative. this partnership can help drive the economic engines of these countries towards shared economic prosperity in the region,” she said at a conference organized by the stratbase adr institute in makati city.
geopolitical expert dr. jagannath panda pointed to the need for cooperation among the philippines, japan and india to resist china’s “revisionist” agenda.
in his keynote presentation, panda showed photos of maps that indicated china’s nine-dash line demarcation of its claims to nearly the entire south china sea.
he said the three countries must come together to resist china’s unilateral claims.
“the background note that will really bring this trilateral into a success is the revisionism resistance that these three countries are actually holding against china and against the authoritarian powers,” he said.
freedom of navigation must be maintained, and the commercial interests of the three countries must also be protected, according to panda, referring to the naval and commercial traffic through the south china sea, one of the world’s strategic waterways where there are multiple conflicting maritime claims.
2 other pacts
“we not only need to preserve the status quo but we also need to resist authoritarian revisionist tendencies that china and some of the authoritarian countries are promoting in the region,” he said.
according to lazaro, the philippines currently has two trilateral pacts, one with indonesia and malaysia to deal with piracy and terrorism in their common maritime borders, and another with the united states and japan to enhance their capabilities for maintaining stability in the indo-pacific region.
read: ph-japan-india cooperation urged to boost indo-pacific stability
“in concrete terms, the confluence of the two seas can be construed as a natural connection that paves the way for the intersection of interests and goal congruence among the varied actors in the indo-pacific,” lazaro, said referring to the indian and the pacific oceans.
‘geopolitical logic’
in an interview with reporters after the conference, the philippine foreign affairs official said that forging a trilateral pact with japan and india still needed to go through a series of negotiations and processes before it could be formalized.
the philippines, india and japan have separate territorial and maritime disputes with china.
indian ambassador shambu kumaran underscored the need for the three countries to join forces and focus on maritime security in addition to their bilateral relations with each other.
“the geopolitical logic of this partnership is very visible given the recent developments in the region, especially the maritime domain. naturally, both india and japan have prioritized our partnership with the philippines in the area of maritime security and i would think that the maritime domain will be a possible area for us to work together,” kumaran said.
cruise missiles
the philippines and india have upgraded their military ties with the purchase by manila of an p18.9-billion indian missile defense system.
the brahmos supersonic cruise missiles are expected to arrive “within the first quarter” of 2024, a senior military official privy to the brahmos deal but was not authorized to speak to the press told the inquirer.
the philippines and brahmos aerospace private ltd.—an indian-russian joint venture—signed a deal in january 2022 for three batteries of the world’s fastest cruise missiles as part the philippine navy’s shore-based antiship missile system project.
manila is the first foreign customer of the brahmos missiles.
###
dead-russian-spacecraft-almost-collided-195039436.html: 
a dead russian spacecraft almost collided with a nasa satellite. the crash could have sent 7,500 bits of debris rocketing around earth.
nasa's timed satellite narrowly avoided colliding with a dead russian spacecraft this week.
in the worst-case scenario, the collision could have ejected up to 7,500 bits of debris into orbit.
satellite collisions are becoming more likely as the amount of space junk in low-earth orbit grows.
two satellites nearly collided in space on wednesday in a harrowing encounter that leolabs, a satellite-tracking company, called "too close for comfort."
nasa's thermosphere ionosphere mesosphere energetics and dynamics, or timed, satellite passed by russia's inoperative cosmos 2221 spacecraft with less than 65 feet of clearance. that's shorter than the length of a tennis court.
these satellites are non-maneuverable, meaning neither the us nor russia have control over where they go.
if they had collided, it could have decimated both satellites, blasting up to 7,500 fragments of space junk into earth's orbit that would now be zooming around our planet at thousands of miles an hour, faster than bullets.
the fragments wouldn't have posed a danger to life on earth because any debris that penetrated our atmosphere would have burned up during free fall.
but it would have threatened future spaceflight and astronaut lives since the resulting debris could have made navigating low-earth orbit far more treacherous.
"there are 'bad neighborhoods' where these massive derelicts are accumulating preferentially," darren mcknight, leolabs' senior technical fellow, told business insider in an email.
avoiding collisions in these congested areas is becoming increasingly difficult as the number of objects in earth's orbit grows yearly.
earth's orbit is getting overcrowded
near collisions between large space objects like this are rare, but it only takes one to completely change the landscape of earth's orbit and endanger countless other satellites, space telescopes, and even the international space station, or iss.
two satellite collisions in 2007 and 2009 increased the concentration of large debris in low-earth orbit by roughly 70%.
and with the advent of mega-constellations of internet satellites, such as spacex's starlink and amazon's kuiper, the number of objects in low-earth orbit is growing more and more each year, increasing the risk of collisions.
in 2007, scientists estimated there were about 10,000 low-earth objects. by 2021, that number had doubled. and most of it isn't even useful — it's space junk.
roughly 70% of low-earth objects are pieces of debris from damaged or defunct rockets, satellites, and nonoperational payloads, according to leolabs.
that's just what's cataloged, though.
the european space agency estimates that nearly 1 million bits of debris measuring between one and 10 centimeters are circling earth, with another 130 million bits even smaller than that.
space junk is so pervasive the iss sometimes has to navigate around it.
in march 2023, the iss dodged objects twice in one month, once to avoid a collision with a satellite and again to maneuver around debris a few days later.
even the tiniest pieces of debris can damage the space station and endanger astronauts, though no astronaut has lost their life due to space debris — yet.
the race to clean up space
the consequences of space debris are very real, so much so that the worst-case scenario has a name: kessler syndrome.
in this scenario, a collision sets off a chain reaction, generating a catastrophic domino effect that produces so much space debris that no spacecraft can safely leave earth for hundreds or thousands of years.
but preventing collisions today can offset a possible kessler-syndrome scenario in the future. and some governments and private companies have begun to address the problem.
new space-industry norms and policies in some countries are prompting satellite operators to design their spacecraft to self-destruct when they die by pushing themselves into a free fall that causes them to burn up in the atmosphere.
last year, the fcc — the us agency that regulates most communications satellites — took its first-ever enforcement action related to space debris when it fined dish network $150,000 for failing to properly dispose of a retired satellite.
some governments seem less concerned. both india and russia have tested anti-satellite missiles by destroying their own satellites in orbit, creating new clouds of debris.
as for old, inoperable spacecraft roaming loose in orbit, such as cosmos 2221, nasa is outsourcing research and development to private companies to collect them.
in september 2023, the space agency awarded $850,000 to transastra for their concept of "flytrap" space-debris capture bags — basically, giant high-tech trash bags to scoop up a lot of space junk.
outside the us, other companies are coming up with their own innovative disposal solutions. the japanese company astroscale designed a spacecraft with a magnetic plate that can attach to dead satellites and pull them into free fall.
but these space clean-up technologies are still in testing. the european space agency plans to be the first to remove a piece of debris from earth's orbit with its clearspace-1 mission, scheduled to launch in 2026.
meanwhile, leolabs hopes that its precision data on objects in orbit will help satellite operators foresee and avoid near collisions like the one that happened wednesday.
read the original article on business insider
###
meghalaya-suspected-smuggler-killed-in-bsf-firing-near-indo-bangla-border-101709381212153.html: 
meghalaya: suspected smuggler killed in bsf firing near indo-bangla border
a suspected sugar smuggler was shot dead by security forces in meghalaya near the indo-bangladesh border, with his accomplice injured in the firing.
shillong: the security forces in meghalaya allegedly shot dead a suspected sugar smuggler while his accomplice was injured in firing near the indo-bangaldesh international border, officials said on saturday.
officials said that one asen m marak, in his mid-forties, was killed in the firing from bsf meghalaya frontier on march 1.
the identity and whereabouts of his accomplice, who is believed to have been hit in the leg, are being ascertained by both police and bsf currently, said officials.
confirming the incident, sohra sub-divisional officer (civil) salon verma said the matter is under inquiry and all formalities are being followed. “i will personally conduct the inquest after the investigating team returns to the base with all relevant information gathered. the postmortem will be conducted here in sohra, and thereafter, the law will take its course towards a logical conclusion,” she told ht over the phone from sohra.
officials said that the incident took place at dalia village near shella in meghalaya’s east khasi hills district at around 8pm, when a bsf posse on duty came upon a group of people allegedly trying to smuggle sugar, onion, and other materials that fetch a hefty price in bangladesh.
sharing preliminary details of the incident, a senior bsf officer said though such acts occur frequently, it was different this time as about 300 people from both sides of the international border converged at the spot and confronted the bsf team, which after resorting to all legal measures to contain the crowd, had to resort to two rounds of firing resulting in the death of marak.
“almost 300 people from both sides of the border converged at the site to confront the bsf personnel. while a group engaged with the bsf personnel, another group quickly took the head load of contraband to remove any evidence of smuggling along with the person who was alive then, to the village where he succumbed to his injuries,” the officer, who did not wish to be named, told ht over the phone.
the officer elaborated, “the boys initially used all non-lethal measures such as chilli grenade, stun grenade, and even pag (pump action gun) to quell the growing aggressive crowd. but they (the crowd) attacked the team with machetes, knives and other weapons.”
however, it did not work as the crowd got out of control and charged the bsf team with weapons, said the officer. the team initially fired once in the air and subsequently fired again, resulting in the injury of two persons, he added.
“as per convention, unlike the western border, there is a treaty wherein, non-lethal measures will be first adopted in cases of border confrontation or skirmishes and the boys had to take to the last resort to save themselves,” the officer added.
get current updates on india news, pm narendra modi in kerala live , electoral bonds data live , lok sabha election 2024 date along with latest news and top headlines from india and around the world.
###
nagaland-assembly-adopts-resolution-against-decision-to-fence-indo-myanmar-border-scrap-fmr: 
kohima: the nagaland assembly friday adopted a resolution urging the centre to reconsider its decision to fence the indo-myanmar border and scrap the free movement regime (fmr) with the neighbouring country.
the assembly also resolved to appeal to the central government to work out regulations for movement of people across the boundary in consultation with the people inhabiting the border areas, and for suitably bringing in the village council authorities concerned in the entire system of regulations.”
the centre earlier this month ended the fmr, which allows people residing close to the india-myanmar border to venture 16 km into each other’s territory without visa.
the 1643 km stretch of the indo-myanmar border is spread over four north eastern states – arunachal pradesh, manipur, mizoram and nagaland.
the resolution stated that the centre’s decision to suspend the fmr and fence the indo-myanmar boundary would disrupt the age-old historical, social, tribal, and economic ties of the naga people living on both sides of the international border.
it also said that the measures would cause immense inconvenience to the naga people living in border areas as a number of people of nagaland have agricultural land across the border.
the resolution moved by deputy chief minister y patton was adopted unanimously in the house.
various other naga civil societies, tribal organisations, naga political groups and also chief angh (king) of longwa village in mon district, whose house has be divided into two nations, have also objected to the decision of the centre.
pti
###
cdc-ends-5-day-covid-isolation-period-updates-2024-guidelines.htm: 
cdc ends 5-day covid isolation period, updates its 2024 guidelines
the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) declared on friday that individuals testing positive for covid-19 no longer need to be confined for five days, in line with public health advice for other respiratory diseases.
cdc updates guidelines on covid isolation
the updated guideline emphasizes staying home when sick and returning to regular activities once fever-free for 24 hours. this change reflects decreasing severe outcomes of covid and the acknowledgment that many people do not test themselves for the virus.
driven by a significant reduction in hospital admissions and deaths, the cdc's decision aims to simplify guidance and align with measures for flu and respiratory illnesses.
the experiences of california and oregon, which already adopted similar guidelines, indicated no increase in covid-related emergency visits or hospitalizations.
despite criticism, the cdc encourages continued caution for five days after recovery, including mask use and improved ventilation.
the new guidance, applicable to the general public, doesn't alter hospital isolation guidelines, typically lasting ten days.
while the cdc appeals to covid-19 vaccination, indicates hygiene practices, and promotes for enhanced ventilation, the agency foresees a possible uptick in cases later in the summer and advocates a booster shot for adults 65 and older.
individuals recovering from covid-19 are no longer needed to monitor a five-day confinement period after their manifestation descends, as per the recent guidance from the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention.
the updated advice recommends that those afflicted with covid-19 should remain at home and avoid contact with others until at least 24 hours after their symptoms improve, and they no longer have a fever without the use of medication.
read also: cdc suggests older adults to get booster shots for covid-19 in spring
cdc reduces 5-day isolation for positive results
the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) announced on friday that it is phasing out much of its specific covid-19 guidance, including the recommendation for americans to stay home for five days after testing positive.
the decision stems from improved hospitalization and death rates during the recent covid-19 season, with the cdc noting that while covid-19 remains a public health threat, its impact now resembles that of other respiratory viral illnesses.
instead of providing separate covid-19 recommendations, the cdc will adopt a unified approach addressing risk alongside influenza and respiratory syncytial virus (rsv).
the shift aims to simplify guidelines for increased adherence. the new guidance covers testing recommendations, emphasizing testing for those at higher risk and considering it as an additional prevention strategy for others.
masking is advised for those sick with covid-19 or other respiratory viruses for five days after leaving home, along with distancing and improved ventilation.
the cdc acknowledges challenges with at-home testing accuracy and the impracticality of repeated testing throughout illness.
the guidance also eliminates specific benchmarks tied to county-by-county mask recommendations, opting for broader tools and community information. health care facility guidance remains unchanged.
the cdc ends the five-day isolation plea, suggesting individuals with respiratory virus symptoms stay home until fever-free for 24 hours without medication and symptom improvement.
the decision aligns with states and countries adopting similar recommendations, emphasizing the absence of increased hospitalizations or deaths. the following five days require additional precautions, considering potential residual virus spread.
related article: winter health crisis: cdc issues urgent call for vaccination as respiratory cases skyrocket
© 2024 parentherald.com all rights reserved. do not reproduce without permission.
###
?cs=20758: 
a new campbell town 'wool school' and upgrades to the home of agfest feature in the liberal party's $27.7 million agriculture policy.
central to the package is a commitment to fairly compensate those affected by a major energy project.
"we're going to work in partnerships with tasfarmers and farmers themselves to ensure that every farmer that is impacted by key infrastructure - such as the north west transmission development line - will be fairly compensated and recognised for the fact that their land is supporting tasmania's future and a growing economy," premier jeremy rockliff said.
the government will provide $1.5 million to help the midland agriculture association establish a $1.5 million wool school at the campbell town showgrounds.
the state-of-the-art facility would support shearers, wool handlers and classers, and help address skill shortages in the industry.
agfest and party in the paddock venue quercus park is also set to benefit from a $350,000 contribution towards a permanent, multi-use structure.
the package also includes $3.2 million for the rspca and $500,000 towards cat management in the west and north-west.
sign up for our newsletter to stay up to date.
we care about the protection of your data. read our privacy policy.
###
dc-maryland-virginia-veteran-ww2-wwii-combat-glider-pilots-celebrates-104th-birthday-frank-brandon-history-library-of-congress-interview-german-pow-cap: 
washington (7news) — reporter's notebook: veteran frank brandon of virginia turns 104 on march 5. his family celebrated his big moment a few days early. i always enjoy covering stories involving veterans as my father served during world war 2 aboard the uss savannah. as it turns out, brandon is quite the living history book. he survived multiple world war 2 combat missions and imprisonment in a german pow camp.
----
when frank brandon glides into a room there’s often a tip of his cap because it proudly states, ' i’m 104, i’m allowed.'
“i think i’m blessed unbelievably," brandon told 7news during his interview.
he's blessed indeed to be celebrating with family and friends 104 years of a life well lived.
“people often ask 'what do you attribute your longevity too?' and without any doubt, the credit goes to the good lord, period," stated brandon.
brandon’s faith came in handy four hours into a dangerous aerial mission deep into enemy lines in northern europe during world war 2. you see, brandon is believed to be among the last living ww2 combat glider pilots. he told 7news a few years back, there were only four surviving ww2 combat glider pilots.
read | 104-year-old air force veteran shares his secret to a successful and fulfilling life
“my tow ship had his right engine hit and it burst into flames immediately," said brandon during an interview conducted years ago for the library of congress.
a number of years ago, brandon sat down for an interview now archived in the library of congress to talk about that harrowing day when, under heavy fire, he managed to crash land his war glider in a field without any fatalities.
“the germans had us surrounded. we didn’t know what to do," recalled brandon.
brandon survived his time in a german pow camp and now, so many years later, gets to savor this monumental moment with generations of family members.
“he chose to defend our country and our freedoms and so freedom i think is the key. we are so, so blessed in this country to still be free," said his granddaughter tiffany sears.
also read | 100-year-old docent at national museum of the united marine corps keeps history alive
frank brandon does enjoy doling out two bits of advice. don’t sweat the small stuff. and the fight to live free in a democracy remains the worthiest of causes.
“the single most important thing in today’s environment is to ensure, absolutely ensure that we keep our way of government," concluded brandon.
###
newcastle-man-77-dies-being-165656387.html: 
newcastle: man, 77, dies after being hit by people carrier
a pedestrian has died after being hit by a people carrier.
officers were called to westgate road in newcastle at 17:20 gmt on friday, after reports a black mercedes had been in collision with a man.
northumbria police said the 77-year-old was taken to hospital where he was pronounced dead.
the force said an investigation was under way. it appealing for witnesses or anyone with dashcam footage to get in touch.
follow bbc newcastle on facebook, x (formerly twitter), and instagram. send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.
###
akufo-addos-bizarre-attempt-to-exonerate-bawumia-from-economic-mess-will-fail-suhuyini: 
the member of parliament for tamale north, alhassan suhuyini, has strongly criticized president nana addo dankwa akufo-addo for attempting to dissociate his vice, dr mahamudu bawumia, from the current economic crisis.
during his state of the nation address on tuesday, february 27, the president unequivocally accepted responsibility for the current economic challenges, emphasizing that executive powers are ultimately vested in the president.
the president acknowledged that the accountability for challenges rests squarely with the president. this statement follows recent comments by vice president dr mahamudu bawumia. he clarified that the economic management team (emt), which he leads, does not have decision-making authority and solely provides advisory services to the cabinet.
in an interview on the big issue on citi tv, suhuyini, along with other stakeholders, believes that the vice president cannot be absolved of the economic crisis.
he asserted that dr bawumia, who plays a significant role on the economic management team (emt), should take full responsibility for the hardships the country is currently facing.
the mp for tamale north criticized the president for praising his vice and reversing his stance.
“the exoneration and responsibility, the president in his state of the nation address in 2018 said that ‘i’m glad to be able to report that the economic management team, under the stellar leadership of the strong, brilliant, economist, vice president dr bawumia has risen to the challenge and the hard work is beginning to show positive results’. that was the president informing us who was in charge of the programmes they were implementing as far as emt was concerned.
he further asserted, “suddenly, because things are bad, the president now says that he’s responsible. but even in that same breath, he says that when it comes to digitalization, he’s responsible [bawumia]. it’s an irony, what a bizarre attempt to repackage and sell a very bad product to the people of ghana.
“why is there the need to distance him now from this very bad economic record, when you told us that under the economy wizard’s leadership that is why you were doing well.”
——-
explore the world of impactful news with citinewsroom on whatsapp!
click on the link to join the citi newsroom channel for curated, meaningful stories tailored just for you: https://whatsapp.com/channel/0029vacyzpraylupuddde53x
no spams, just the stories that truly matter! #stayinformed #citinewsroom #cnrdigital
###
young-advocates-for-natural-gas-at-algiers-summit: 
young advocates for natural gas at algiers summit
minister of energy and energy industries stuart young advocated for the use of natural gas as a transition fuel, stressing the importance of using sovereign resources and ensuring energy security, at an extraordinary ministerial meeting on march 1.
young, along with a delegation from his ministry representing the government, attended the 7th gas exporting countries forum (gecf) summit in algiers, the democratic republic of algeria.
speaking at the international conference centre abdelatif rahal in algiers, algeria he said,
"it is incumbent upon us to raise our voices globally in the conversation of energy security and food security, demand the ability and the opportunities to utilise our sovereign resources, and work together not only in the promotion of the use of natural gas."
young said natural gas would inevitably remain a prominent energy source for decades to come and called for a clean energy environment, stressing the importance of collectively exploiting national gas resources.
"trinidad and tobago, as small as it is, continues to play a vital role in providing energy security, not only for latin america and the caricom region but also as far away as europe. i call upon us once again to use the body of the gecf to raise the platform and the voices for natural gas."
he urged support for the african continent's ability to independently develop its resources for energy security, citing the tt dragon gas deal, which involved two gecf member countries, as an example of a project facilitating resource development.
young concluded by anticipating closer collaboration as a united voice, saying, "sometimes we need to push back on those who make decisions in far-off places that directly affect our ability to develop our own resources."
the gecf summit serves as a meeting of heads of state and government from the member countries of the gecf, providing a platform for leaders to discuss and share insights on recent developments and future perspectives on energy, particularly natural gas. the summit ends with the issuing of the algiers declaration.
###
rjxjr4epp: 
u.s. president joe biden announced on friday plans to carry out a first military airdrop of food and supplies into gaza, a day after the deaths of palestinians queuing for aid threw a spotlight on an unfolding humanitarian catastrophe in the crowded coastal enclave.
read more:
biden said the u.s. airdrop would take place in the coming days but offered no further specifics. other countries, including jordan and france, have already carried out airdrops of aid into gaza. "we need to do more and the united states will do more," biden told reporters, adding that "aid flowing to gaza is nowhere nearly enough."
at the white house, spokesperson john kirby stressed that airdrops would become "a sustained effort." he added that the first airdrop would be likely be military mres, or "meals ready-to-eat," adding "this isn’t going to be one and done."
biden told reporters that the u.s. was also looking at the possibility of a maritime corridor to deliver large amounts of aid into gaza. the airdrops could begin as early as this weekend, officials said.
at least 576,000 people in the gaza strip - one quarter of the enclave's population - are one step away from famine, according to the u.n. office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs. gaza's hamas health authorities said israeli forces had killed more than 100 people trying to reach a relief convoy near gaza city early on thursday. palestinians face an increasingly desperate situation nearly five months into the war that began with a hamas attack on israel on oct. 7.
israel blamed most of the deaths on crowds that swarmed around aid trucks, saying victims had been trampled or run over. an israeli official also said troops had "in a limited response" later fired on crowds they felt had posed a threat.
with people eating animal feed and even cactuses to survive, and with medics saying children are dying in hospitals from malnutrition and dehydration, the u.n. has said it faces "overwhelming obstacles" getting in aid.
while it is unclear which type of aircraft will be used, the c-17 and c-130 are best suited for the job. david deptula, a retired u.s. air force three-star general who once commanded the no-fly zone over northern iraq, said airdrops are something the u.s. military can effectively execute. "it is something that's right up their mission alley," deptula told reuters. "there are a lot of detailed challenges. but there's nothing insurmountable."
the united states and others also expect aid would be boosted by a temporary ceasefire, which biden said friday he hoped would happen by the time of the muslim fasting month of ramadan, which starts on march 10.
israel 'aware' of airdrop
still, there have been questions about the effectiveness of air dropping aid into gaza. a u.s. official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the airdrops would have only a limited impact on the suffering of those in gaza.
"it doesn't deal with the root cause," the official said, adding that ultimately only opening up land borders could deal with the issue in a serious manner.
another issue, the official added, was that the u.s. could not ensure that the aid simply didn’t end up in hamas’ hands, given that the united states did not have troops on the ground.
"humanitarian workers always complain that airdrops are good photo opportunities but a lousy way to deliver aid," richard gowan, the international crisis group's u.n. director, said. gowan said that the only way to get enough aid was through aid convoys which would follow a truce. "it is arguable that the situation in gaza is now so bad that any additional supplies will at least alleviate some suffering. but this at best a temporary band aid measure," gowan added.
under pressure at home and abroad, another u.s. official said the biden administration was looking at shipping aid by sea from cyprus, some 210 nautical miles off gaza's mediterranean coast.
at the white house, kirby acknowledged that the airdrops into gaza were "extremely difficult" because of the dense population and ongoing conflict.
the u.s. for months has been calling for israel to allow more aid into gaza, something israel has resisted. kirby noted that israel had tried to airdrop supplies into gaza and it was supportive of the u.s. airdropping aid. "we are aware of the humanitarian airdrop," said an israeli official in washington.
the official, speaking on condition of anonymity, did not reply to a question on whether the u.s. had sought israeli agreement in advance on the air drops or was coordinating the effort with it.
biden's announcement of the fresh aid to gaza was marred by gaffes as he twice confused it for ukraine.
the u.n. delivered aid to besieged northern gaza for the first time in over a week on friday, said the u.n. office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs. the u.n. delivered medicines, vaccines and fuel to al-shifa hospital in gaza city.
the world food program said 10 days ago that it was pausing deliveries of food aid to northern gaza until conditions in the palestinian enclave allow for safe distribution.
the u.n. palestinian refugee agency unrwa said on friday that during february an average of nearly 97 trucks were able to enter gaza each day, compared with about 150 trucks a day in january, adding: "the number of trucks entering gaza remains well below the target of 500 per day."
###
bill-would-rid-of-foreign-contributions-for-issue-campaigns-in-ohio: 
columbus, ohio (wcmh) – some lawmakers at the ohio statehouse are worried about foreign influence on elections, specifically issue-based campaigns. that is why senators theresa gavarone (r-bowling green) and rob mccolley (r-napoleon) brought forward senate bill 215.
“are we against foreign money in elections or not,” mccolley said. “it’s as simple as that.”
“the smell test on this one is that it seems like a sore loser response,” ohio senate minority leader nickie antonio (d-lakewood) said.
state and federal law does already prohibit foreign contributions to candidates. but for issue campaigns like the reproductive rights and marijuana legalization measures in november — the door was left open to overseas donors. sb215 passed the senate on wednesday, on partly lines, 25 to seven.
“we want to shut that door and stop foreign interference in all our elections,” gavarone said. “a no vote says that for them to meddle in our elections is not only acceptable but encouraged.”
republicans use the latest issue election as an example. millions of dollars poured into the reproductive rights campaign, including millions of dollars of contributions from the sixteen thirty fund, a group heavily supported by a swiss billionaire.
demora said he doesn’t have a problem with the group giving money to the abortion-rights ballot issue, because the group didn’t do anything illegal.
“it is not solely in response to that,” senate president matt huffman (r-lima) said. “but it’s an ongoing problem and i think the practical matter is, for a lot of elections, folks outside of ohio care about what’s going on.”
senator bill demora (d-columbus) said, he agrees, foreign influence is not necessarily good, but said either way, millions of dollars are poured into ohio elections from out of state.
“the campaign got money from a foundation that got money from a foreign national, who’s to say that the money the foreign national put in there is the same money the ohio ballot issue got,” he said. “i don’t know what the difference between a billionaire from canada and switzerland is versus a billionaire from texas.”
huffman said the bill should be passed to minimize election influence by people outside of ohio.
the bill also prohibits “a lawful permanent u.s. resident, also known as a green card holder,” from making contributions both to ballot issues and candidates.
demora said the language in the bill will discourage participation in the election process, like collecting signatures for ballot issues, even for things as simple as adding a stop sign on a street.
“they now have to file as a pac because they’re spending money and collecting signatures for a ballot issue, which is absolutely ludicrous,” demora said. “republicans have passed this whole convoluted mess.”
demora, and other democrats, said they worry this bill will have a chilling effect on grassroots efforts to put issues on ballots.
“the point of this bill is so that a guy in switzerland who wants to give $10 million to effect a ballot issue in ohio won’t be able to do that,” huffman said.
the bill is still in the statehouse; the next step for approval is the ohio house. if it passes before august, it will take effect before the november election.
###
illinois-man-killed-lottery-ticket: 
illinois man shot and killed on his way to buy lottery ticket
a man was going to purchase a lottery ticket for his wife when his life suddenly ended on monday night (2/26).
father was an innocent bystander in chicago shooting
one man was killed and three others injured in a shooting that occurred around 5:45 pm on monday (2/26) near 71st and state street in chicago's grand crossing neighborhood.
in the story from abc7, authorities reported that a verbal argument is what started the incident that ended with shots being fired.
read more: illinois man charged in 3-year-old rockford murder
chicago police say they received an alert of the incident on spotshotter and when officers arrived on the scene identified two gunshot victims, one who was critically shot in the head while using a nearby atm.
relatives of the victim say he was just making a quick trip to the corner store to purchase a lottery ticket for his wife when he was caught in the crossfire of the shooting.
shooting victim identified as south side chicago resident
the man who was shot and killed on monday in chicago while on his way to buy a lottery ticket has been identified as 59-year-old simon brown.
during their investigation and search of the area, chicago police found one of the suspects who suffered a gunshot wound to the leg, and took him into custody.
cpd is hoping to identify a second shooter using security cameras in the area, according to abc7.
if you want to see what crime is like in the chicago neighborhoods, click here to see the crime and safety tracker.
see the must-drive roads in every state
gallery credit: sarah jones
look: 50 beloved retail chains that no longer exist
gallery credit: madison troyer
###
older-us-adults-should-get-another-covid-19-shot-health-officials-recommend: 
by mike stobbe, the associated press
older u.s. adults should roll up their sleeves for another covid-19 shot, even if they got a booster in the fall, u.s. health officials said wednesday.
the centers for disease control and prevention said americans 65 and older should get another dose of the updated vaccine that became available in september — if at least four months has passed since their last shot. in making the recommendation, the agency endorsed guidance proposed by an expert advisory panel earlier in the day.
“most covid-19 deaths and hospitalizations last year were among people 65 years and older. an additional vaccine dose can provide added protection ... for those at highest risk,” cdc director dr. mandy cohen said in a statement.
the advisory panel’s decision came after a lengthy discussion about whether to say older people “may” get the shots or if they “should” do so. that reflects a debate among experts about how necessary another booster is and whether yet another recommendation would add to the public’s growing vaccine fatigue.
some doctors say most older adults are adequately protected by the fall shot, which built on immunity derived from earlier vaccinations and exposure to the virus itself. and preliminary studies so far have shown no substantial waning in vaccine effectiveness over six months.
however, the body’s vaccine-induced defenses tend to fade over time, and that happens faster in seniors than in other adults. the committee had recommended covid-19 booster doses for older adults in 2022 and 2023.
covid-19 remains a danger, especially to older people and those with underlying medical conditions. there are still more than 20,000 hospitalizations and more than 2,000 deaths each week due to the coronavirus, according to the cdc. and people 65 and older have the highest hospitalization and death rates.
some members of the advisory panel said a “should” recommendation is meant to more clearly prod doctors and pharmacists to offer the shots.
“most people are coming in either wanting the vaccine or not,” said dr. jamie loehr, a committee member and family doctor in ithaca, new york. “i am trying to make it easier for providers to say, ‘yes, we recommend this.’”
in september, the government recommended a new covid-19 shot recipe built against a version of the coronavirus called xbb.1.5. that single-target vaccine replaced combination shots that had been targeting both the original coronavirus strain and a much earlier omicron version.
the cdc recommended the new shots for everyone 6 months and older, and allowed that people with weak immune systems could get a second dose as early as two months after the first.
most americans haven’t listened. according to the latest cdc data, 13% of u.s. children have gotten the shots and about 22% of u.s. adults have. the vaccination rate is higher for adults 65 and older, at nearly 42%.
“in each successive vaccine, the uptake has gone down,” said dr. david canaday, a case western reserve university infectious diseases expert who studies covid-19 in older people.
“people are tired of getting all these shots all the time,” said canaday, who does not serve on the committee. “we have to be careful about over-recommending the vaccine.”
but there is a subset of americans — those at higher danger of severe illness and death — who have been asking if another dose is permissible, said dr. william schaffner, a vanderbilt university vaccines expert who serves on a committee workgroup that has been debating the booster question.
indeed, cdc survey data suggests that group’s biggest worry about the vaccine is whether it’s effective enough.
agency officials say that among those who got the latest version of the covid-19 vaccine, 50% fewer will get sick after they come into contact with the virus compared with those who didn’t get the fall shot.
the associated press health and science department receives support from the howard hughes medical institute’s science and educational media group. the ap is solely responsible for all content.
follow us for more stories like this
capradio provides a trusted source of news because of you. as a nonprofit organization, donations from people like you sustain the journalism that allows us to discover stories that are important to our audience. if you believe in what we do and support our mission, please donate today.
donate today
###
first-lady-jill-biden-wisconsin-005454519.html: 
first lady jill biden wisconsin visit; milwaukee, waukesha trips
- oops!something went wrong.please try again later.
- oops!something went wrong.please try again later.
- oops!something went wrong.please try again later.
waukesha, wis. - inside the 4-h building at the waukesha county expo center, first lady jill biden put women and wisconsin center stage.
the badger state was the final stop of the "women for biden" campaign tour on sunday, march 3. it was as an effort to mobilize women ahead of the election.
"women put joe biden in the white house, and women are going to do it again," biden said. "we're going to meet this moment as if our rights are at risk, because they are. as if our democracy is on the line, because it is."
free download: get breaking news alerts in the fox6 news app for ios or android
milwaukee county board chair marcelia nicholson, sen. tammy baldwin and krystal judah also spoke at the event.
waukesha county executive paul farrow, the former head of the state's republican party, sees it differently.
"really, for me, what it comes down to is a fear factor," he said. "they're trying to scare women to realize, or to think that all we're trying to do is take away their reproductive rights, and that's hardly the case."
he said the focus should be public safety and pointed to the southern border as the top issue.
"i think what we need to do is get the president to realize what's really important, and that's the security and safety of this country," farrow said.
sign up today: get daily headlines, breaking news emails from fox6 news
before leaving town, the first lady stopped at rooted mke, a black woman-owned bookstore in milwaukee’s washington heights neighborhood to get some books for her grandson.
she also thanked volunteers and supports at the democrat’s campaign office in bay view.
wisconsin will get another visit from the white house on wednesday, when vice president kamala harris makes her sixth trip here for an event in madison.
biden was last in the badger state just about two weeks ago; the first lady traveled to green bay on friday, feb. 16 to discuss education. the first lady joined a roundtable to spotlight efforts to expand career-connected learning in high school and college.
###
police-arrest-man-caught-roaming-halls-lawrence-middle-school-4-am: 
police arrest man caught roaming halls of lawrence middle school at 4 a.m.
lawrence, kan. (kctv) - the lawrence, kansas, police department says the man caught on surveillance roaming the halls of west middle school at 4 a.m. before items were stolen has been identified and arrested.
lkpd said that around 4 a.m. on saturday, feb. 24, the man broke into the middle school as he made “a bit of a mess” before he grabbed smaller items, including a laptop, and took off.
police noted that a school resource officer led the investigation, and despite attempts to cover his face, the suspect was identified. he was strategically approached in a safe environment where he was arrested in connection to a separate incident.
law enforcement officials indicated that an affidavit has been sent to the district attorney’s office with detailed charges.
as of 5 p.m. on march 1, the suspect remains publicly unidentified.
copyright 2024 kctv. all rights reserved.
###
29-year-old-sentenced-to-57-months-for-drug-trafficking-in-maine: 
29-year-old sentenced to 57 months for drug trafficking in maine
a 29-year-old maine man was sentenced to 57 months in prison for drug trafficking and possession.
sentenced to 57 months in prison
cody mosher pleaded guilty on september 1, 2023. he was charged with possession with intent to distribute fentanyl. he will also have four years of supervised release.
maine man fled deputies in high-speed chase
mosher led police on a high-speed chase through norridgewock and madison in january 2023 “after deputies approached his vehicle and informed him they were executing a search warrant and arrest warrant,” said court records.
fentanyl and cocaine seized from vehicle
mosher was stopped and arrested and his vehicle was searched. police seized approximately 760 grams of fentanyl, 21 grams of cocaine, a digital scale, and a substantial amount of cash from the vehicle.
dea, sheriff’s office and maine state police
law enforcement involved in the investigation included the u.s. drug enforcement administration (dea), the somerset county sheriff’s office and the maine state police.
- read more: three arrested for drug trafficking in maine after police chase
- also read: man faces up to 55 years for drug trafficking and firearm
vhs tapes that sold for shocking amounts of money
look: 19 drinks only '90s kids remember
gallery credit: meg dowdy
###
omani-doctor-volunteers-in-gaza-spreads-hope-amid-destruction: 
muscat – dr aiman al salmi, a doctor from khoula hospital in muscat, is currently visiting gaza to provide much-needed medical assistance to the wounded amidst the ongoing conflict.
dr salmi’s journey through the rafah crossing into the heart of rafah city was fraught with danger, but he was determined to help injured palestinians with healthcare facilities in the occupied territories on the brink of collapse.
upon arrival in rafah, dr salmi wasted no time in beginning his humanitarian work, focusing on delivering critical medical care, especially to the children affected by the violence.
speaking from gaza, dr salmi shared his mixed feelings of fulfillment on being able to help and sorrow over the catastrophic situation and the casualties he witnessed.
“i am glad to be here to assist the injured, particularly children, but i am also deeply saddened by the significant number of casualties,” he said.
he shed light on the calamitous conditions in gaza, including food scarcity and the relentless threat posed by airstrikes, which have not spared even hospitals putting the lives of the displaced seeking refuge in jeopardy.
“the hospitals themselves face significant risks, shaking from bomb attacks multiple times a day. missiles land near hospitals, further intensifying the challenges.
“the people of gaza know that arab nations will not abandon them. their joy and relief upon receiving support is immeasurable,” he said, expressing his gratitude for the support that made his participation in this critical mission possible.
dr salmi’s presence, alongside other aid workers from the gcc, is a beacon of hope for the people of gaza, reinforcing their belief in the unwavering support of arab nations during their time of need.
he described entering gaza as a complex process, requiring coordination with international organisations that are working on deployment of medical professionals where they are most needed.
reactions in the sultanate to dr salmi’s act of solidarity and humanity have been overwhelming, resonating with people aboard, too.
grand mufti his eminence sheikh ahmed bin hamad al khalili lauded dr salmi’s bravery, hoping it inspires more medical professionals across the islamic world to engage in similar initiatives of compassion and service. “such individuals, motivated by their dedication to serving patients and addressing the consequences of this brutal aggression, are essential in times of crisis,” the grand mufti said.
khamis al hashemi, a concerned citizen, echoed the sentiments of many and offered prayers for dr salmi’s safety and successful return, highlighting the collective desire to support those in the crisis.
“dr salmi’s mission in gaza is testament to individual acts of kindness and the collective strength of communities standing in solidarity with those in need, illuminating paths of hope in the darkest of times,” hashemi said.
###
unique-idf-radar-saved-israel-gaza-hospital-attack-accusations: 
(jerusalem post) – on october 17, hamas falsely started to claim that israel had attacked the ahli arab hospital in gaza city, leading to the killing of several hundred civilians. had this been true or ultimately been believed to be true, the u.s. and the west might have prevented israel from invading gaza before the invasion could even start around a week later.
in the public view, the idf spokesperson's office released findings on the evening of october 17 and additional findings the next morning to prove that the attack came from a misfired islamic jihad rocket and not from israel.
get the hottest, most important news stories on the internet – delivered free to your inbox as soon as they break! take just 30 seconds and sign up for wnd's email news alerts!
additional intelligence also reduced the number of gazan civilians who had been killed by the islamic jihad misfire. but behind the scenes, the initial key findings were based on information obtained by the special radar of the idf 611th battalion of the 282nd firepower brigade, the jerusalem post has learned.
trending: city 'equity' chief calls for u.s. to 'burn to the ground'
###
fgn21-us-pak-govt.html: 
washington, mar 1 (pti) citing "strong evidence" of election rigging in pakistan, a group of influential lawmakers, including muslim legislators, belonging to the ruling democratic party has urged us president joe biden to withhold "recognition" of a new government in islamabad until a transparent and credible investigation is conducted.
the february 8 general election, marred by allegations of widespread rigging, in pakistan, resulted in a hung parliament with independent candidates backed by jailed former prime minister imran khan's pakistan tehreek-e-insaf (pti) party winning more than 90 seats at the 266-member national assembly. ex-premier nawaz sharif's pml-n bagged 75 seats and former foreign minister bilawal bhutto's ppp got 54 seats. the muttahida qaumi movement pakistan (mqm-p) won 17 seats.
in a joint letter to president biden and secretary of state antony blinken, the lawmakers expressed concerns about "pre- and post-poll rigging in pakistan’s recent parliamentary elections" and urged the us congress to "withhold recognition of a new government in pakistan until a thorough, transparent, and credible investigation of election interference has been conducted".
islamabad is a long-standing ally of washington and it is in the interest of the us to ensure that democracy thrives in pakistan and that election results reflect the interests of the pakistani people, not the interests of the pakistani elite and military, the letter sent on wednesday said.
since the election resulted in a hung parliament, the pakistan muslim league-nawaz (pml-n) and the pakistan peoples party (ppp) have struck a post-poll deal along with four other parties to form a coalition government, which may effectively end khan's chances of returning to power. a party must win 133 out of 265 contested seats in the 266-member national assembly to form a government.
pti has rejected the attempts by the pml-n and the ppp to form a coalition government, warning that robbing its public endorsement by the "mandate thieves" will result in the worst political instability.
"given the strong evidence of pre- and post-poll rigging, we urge you to wait until a thorough, transparent, and credible investigation has been conducted before recognising a new pakistani government. without taking this necessary step, you risk enabling anti-democratic behaviour by pakistani authorities and could undermine the democratic will of the pakistani people," the us lawmakers said.
the letter urged pakistani authorities to release anyone who has been detained for engaging in political speech or activity and tasked state department officials in pakistan with gathering information about such cases and advocating for their release.
it urged the biden administration to "make clear" to pakistani authorities that us law provides for accountability for acts that violate human rights, undermine democracy, or further corruption, "including the potential for military and other cooperation to be halted".
the letter noted that before the elections, former prime minister khan was sentenced to prison terms of 10 years and 14 years on "questionable charges" of leaking state secrets and corruption. members of his pti party "were forced" to run as independents and prohibited from using the party symbol on the ballot, "despite consistently polling as the most popular party in the country".
"leading up to the election. pti members faced police raids, arrests, and harassment. on the day of the election, pakistani authorities suspended mobile calls and data, making it harder for voters to find polling stations," the lawmakers noted.
while the pre-poll rigging efforts rightly received widespread international and domestic condemnation, attention has now turned to widespread allegations of past-poll rigging, they said.
"concerns arose after delays in reporting final results and early returns showed pti-backed candidates on a path to victory. over the coming days and weeks, previously reported vote totals allegedly changed dramatically, while video evidence emerged on social media of purported abuses by security forces and election officials at polling stations, as results were delayed well past legal deadlines," the letter said.
the legislators noted that findings by nonpartisan observers also lend credibility to these concerns.
according to the free and fair election network (fafen), which is nonpartisan but has worked closely with election authorities, more than two-thirds of polling sites suffered from the kinds of election law violations that could have enabled changing outcomes of races, they noted, adding that these findings were echoed by other election monitors, human rights organisations, and the nation's media as well.
"this growing body of evidence and diversity of voices has led many of the leading observers, human rights organisations, and media organisations to call for a transparent, credible audit process to verify the true outcome of the election," they emphasised, urging the biden administration "to show pakistanis that the us stands with them in their fight for democracy and human rights".
according to a report in pakistan's dawn newspaper, all 33 signatories are pivotal progressive democrats essential for securing president biden’s second term.
it noted that influential muslim lawmakers -- rashida tlaib, ilhan omar, and andre carson -- have also endorsed the "pro-pti letter".
the letter was also signed by indian-origin congresswoman pramila jayapal, the chairperson of the progressive caucus.
###
bodies-woman-baby-found-under-160815902.html: 
bodies of woman and baby found under rubble in odesa – photo
- oops!something went wrong.please try again later.
the death toll from the russian shahed uav attack on an apartment building in odesa has risen to seven. the body of a woman with her three-month-old baby has been found under the rubble.
source: oleh kiper, head of odesa oblast military administration; interior minister ihor klymenko
quote from kiper: "the body of a baby has also been found next to the woman's body. the death toll from the attack has now reached seven."
details: earlier, kiper reported that a woman's body had been retrieved from the rubble, bringing the death toll from the russian attack to six.
ukraine's interior minister ihor klymenko added that emergency workers had uncovered the bodies of a mother and her three-month-old baby in odesa.
photo: klymenko on telegram
this means that there are now two children among the seven people killed in the strike. the search and rescue operation is underway.
later, in his evening address, president volodymyr zelenskyy stated that tymofii, the boy killed in the russian attack on odesa, was four month old.
background: around 14:50, emergency workers retrieved the fifth body from the rubble of an apartment building partially destroyed by a russian shahed uav attack on odesa.
previously:
on the night of 1-2 march, part of a multi-storey building in odesa collapsed due to a russian shahed uav attack.
a three-year-old child was killed in the attack. there may still be civilians, including children, under the rubble.
the attack destroyed 18 flats and damaged 7 more.
support up or become our patron!
###
article_e878dadc-d7ec-11ee-926f-2b68ab9bf63f.html: 
two people were hurt on wednesday morning after a max meadows woman drove her car through the front of wytheville’s dollar tree, police said.
it was the second time in less than a year that the 360 commonwealth drive business had been damaged by a vehicle.
according to the wytheville police department, 71-year-old georgia jane ward said she was pulling into the handicap parking space at around 9:30 a.m. when she confused the accelerator pedal for the break pedal and lost control of her ford taurus.
ward wasn’t injured, but a customer was hurt by falling shelving and a clerk was pinned between two cash register islands, police said.
both individuals were treated by ems and taken to wythe county community hospital.
no charges were filed, but police asked for a medical review of ward’s driving privileges with the virginia department of motor vehicles.
people are also reading…
police did the same thing last summer when a 92-year-old woman crashed her car into the store. no one was hurt in that incident, but part of the store’s damaged glass front was still covered with plywood at the time of wednesday’s crash.
in an online post this week, a wytheville dollar tree employee said the store would be closed at least a week and maybe longer.
todd jackson (540) 381-1678
###
israeli-diplomats-son-who-ran-32246748: 
the teenage son of an israeli diplomat, who was arrested for allegedly running over a police officer with his motorcycle, was beaten in a florida jail on wednesday during a row over sausages.
19-year-old avraham gil had returned to the miami-dade county jail to provide an updated mugshot when he became embroiled in a heated debate about sausages with another inmate named blake elvis ermus. the teen, who was accused of “intentionally” running over a cop, was then beaten by ermus, according to local reports.
gil told investigators that he “was having a conversation with the defendant (ermus) about the ingredients of the sausages. at some point, the defendant approached the victim and punched him multiple times.”
read more: crying israeli diplomat's son, 19, 'intentionally' ran over florida cop with motorcycle
32-year-old ermus was in jail on domestic battery charges and has since been charged with felony battery by a detainee, jail records show. gil, whose father is the consul for administration at the israeli consulate in miami, was placed on house arrest after his driving was declared a danger to the public.
he made national headlines when he was pictured crying in his mugshot after attempting to claim diplomatic immunity following his arrest in january. but this was not the teen’s first run-in with miami police, as it is believed he previously drove away from a traffic stop and was pulled over on new year’s eve for several traffic violations. gil’s bike even featured a number plate that read “pls chase”, hidden by a second flip-up plate.
the cop he allegedly ran over is still unable to work and remains in recovery. “just had a motorcycle come and run me over. i’ve got one subject in custody,” the police officer said after being hit, local10 reports.
for all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the usa, go to the mirror us
gil’s lawyers argued the teen should be granted diplomatic immunity due to his father’s position. these calls fell on deaf ears as the us state department confirmed he was not entitled to civil or criminal immunity.
at the time of his arrest, legal expert david weinstein told local10: "diplomatic immunity is not given to people who are called consular officials, and those are people who are not the head diplomatic agent of a foreign country here in the united states, so there is a distinction.”
the teen’s updated mugshot paints a stark contrast to his first, with the 19-year-old showing very little emotion this time. gil’s next court appearance is scheduled for march 12.
thousands of diplomats call the united states their home and dealing with their alleged crimes can often be a delicate and complicated process. as per the vienna convention, diplomats are not liable for arrest or detention, essentially granting them immunity to a wide range of criminal offences.
###
this-is-for-gaza-george-galloway-after-winning-rochdale-byelection.html: 
a veteran british political disruptor has won a special election in a town in northern england with a big muslim minority following a contest that was mired in chaos and controversy and dominated by the war in gaza.
george galloway, 69, swept to victory in thursday's contest, winning almost 40% of the vote in the parliamentary seat of rochdale.
in his victory speech, galloway took aim at keir starmer, the leader of the main opposition labour party, who according to opinion polls is likely to become britain's prime minister at the general election this year.
keir starmer, this is for gaza," he said. "you have paid, and you will pay, a high price for the role that you have played in enabling, encouraging and covering for the catastrophe presently going on in occupied palestine in the gaza strip.
galloway, a former labour member of parliament who was expelled from the party in 2003, also declared labour is on notice and a shifting of the tectonic plates".
labour said galloway only won because the party pulled its support for its candidate, azhar ali, for suggesting israel was complicit in hamas' attack on oct 7. without the backing of labour, ali ended up coming fourth.
galloway's victory means that from next week, parliament will once again be home to one of the most eloquent orators from the left wing of uk politics, who will clearly use his position to raise his opposition to israel's operation in gaza.
george galloway is someone who stokes up division and fear," said ellie reeves, labour's deputy national campaign co-ordinator. "this isn't how we would have wanted this by-election to play out.
the constituency of rochdale has traditionally been a labour seat, one where the governing conservative party makes little headway. its candidate came in third.
galloway, who now leads the workers party of britain, started out his political career half a century ago as a firebrand left-wing labour mp for a constituency in glasgow.
he has been a controversial figure for decades, and faced widespread opposition for meeting in 1994 the then iraqi dictator saddam hussein and telling him: "sir, i salute your courage, your strength, your indefatigability.
in 2004, he returned to parliament as a lawmaker for the anti-war respect party after a special election in a heavily muslim seat in east london, but was defeated at the general election the following year.
he was elected again at a special election in 2012 with a swing of 37% from labour to respect but lost his seat once more in the election of 2015.
in 2019 galloway was fired from a talk-radio show for a social media post that the radio station judged antisemitic.
as well as being an eloquent advocate for his political views, which saw him take us senators to task in 2005, galloway has also courted ridicule, most notably in 2006 when he impersonated a cat in the reality television show celebrity big brother.
###
clacks-charity-worker-braves-hot-32250598: 
when georgia freyne stepped up to face the hot coals of the walk the flames fundraiser on friday night she had her colleague alexia delesalle by her side.
but the 25-year-old had some extra help to take that first, fiery step – the stubbornness of her late auntie claire.
the peer support involvement coordinator for chest heart and stroke scotland decided last minute to fundraise for scotland’s largest health charity to keep the memory of her “second mum” alive.
georgia, from tillicoultry, said: “i was inspired to do something because i lost my auntie claire to one of our conditions.
“she was very important to me and it was very unexpected and sudden and i wanted to do something brave to keep her memory alive.
“claire was truly one of the best people i have ever had the privilege to know and love.
“she raised me, basically. she was my second mum. claire had endless compassion and supported me through every event in my life. by doing this coal walk i wanted to test my mental strength. she was so incredibly stubborn and i was going to get over those coals because i had her stubbornness with me.”
the sociology graduate from stirling university added: “she’d have found it hilarious and thought i was bonkers!
“it’s a case of mind over matter taking the first step. i just wanted to raise some money and do something good in her memory.”
despite georgia and alexia only signing up four days before the walk the flames event they smashed their £250 fundraising target to make just under £1,000.
georgia said: “we were so overwhelmed with the response i could not believe it.
“it was shared to claire’s workplace and all her old colleagues donated. i’ve just been overwhelmed by the response and lovely messages and everyone wanting to keep her memory alive. it’s just so wonderful.
“we both really wanted to do something because we’re so passionate about our job.
“we just walked a few steps on hot coals but the people living with our conditions are doing something every day.”
stephanie wilks, community, events and corporate fundraiser for chest heart and stroke scotland said: “we are grateful to our chss colleagues georgia and alexia for taking on a very brave challenge for a great cause.
“the funds raised will help us to support the 1 in 5 people across the country who are living with chest, heart and stroke conditions and long covid to live their lives to the full.”
chest heart & stroke scotland is committed to reaching 175,000 people living with its conditions across scotland a year by 2028 through its community healthcare support services.
to donate to georgia’s fundraiser go to www.justgiving.com/page/georgia-freyne-alexia-delesalle-1707829915648
to find out more about fundraising for chest heart & stroke scotland visit www.chss.org.uk/supportus/fundraise-for-us .
if you are living with the effects of a chest, heart or stroke condition or long covid and looking for advice and information contact chest heart and stroke scotland’s advice line on 0808 801 0899.
you can also text nurse to 66777 or email adviceline@chss.org.uk.
###
abandoned-town-at-bottom-of-lake: 
there is an abandoned town at the bottom of a lake in central texas
texas has a plethora of ghost towns that are ripe for exploring. just remember to do your research before you do. some of those places could have actually been bought and become private property. if you're not careful, you could be charged with trespassing. having said that, there is an abandoned town where the access to it is not that easy. why? because its at the bottom of a lake.
the story of towash, texas
towash, texas began around 1854. folks started moving to the area to work at a wheat and corn mill there. the mill was run by two brothers, simpson cash and james harrison dyer. the brothers got permission to build a dam on the brazos river so the flow of water could be directed to run the mill.
the mill brought in settlers to work but also became a place for social gatherings. this was due to the amount of people that would us the mill. the wait times for use could be up to two days so those people would socialize to pass the time. the mill was also used during the civil war to have wool carded to weave clothes and blankets.
this little town thrived because of the dyer brother's mill. a post office was established along with a church, a few stores, a blacksmith, a cotton gin and more.
what happened to the town?
in short, the railroad. in the 1880's, the railroad was built in whitney, about 25 miles from towash. throughout the following years, residents moved from towash into whitney. the deserted town stood until 1951 when the whitney dam was built. the dam created lake whitney which engulfed towash.
several of towash's buildings still remain at the bottom of lake whitney about 110 feet down according to many scuba divers. when lake levels are low, you can see some of the town's foundations. if you put in the coordinates 31.922234,-97.343275 in google maps and scroll in real close, you can see some of those foundations.
there are several parks and a state park around lake whitney now. it could be a fun road trip to check out the lake and maybe throw in a scuba diving adventure while you're there. it would certainly make for some cool pictures or video.
amazing whitehouse, texas home on lake tyler
gallery credit: billy jenkins
unbelievable $9 million dollar property on possum kingdom lake
gallery credit: billy jenkins
###
broadcasting-authority-slams-times-now-news-18-for-love-jihad-narratives: 
the news broadcasters & digital association (nbdsa) has slammed times now, aaj tak, and news 18 for several news reports that set a targeted narrative against muslims, particularly concerning ‘love jihad’. ‘love jihad’ refers to a bogus claim made by the hindu right wing that muslim men are ‘luring’ hindu women into marriages to convert them to islam. times now and news 18 india have both been fined for linking the murder of shraddha walkar to ‘love jihad’ and have been told to remove all of the offensive videos.
in its order to news 18 india, nbdsa said, “the term ‘love jihad’ should not be used loosely and should be used with great introspection in future broadcasts as religious stereotyping can corrode the secular fabric of the country, cause irreparable harm to a community and create religious intolerance or disharmony.”
times now was also similarly admonished, with the nbdsa warning against “generalised statements regarding inter-faith marriages by giving it a communal colour.” they further told times now, “every citizen, from whichever religion, has a right to marry a person of his/her choice, irrespective of the religion to which he/she belongs.”
after the murder of shradda walkar by her live-in partner aaftab amin poonawala in november 2022, times now navbharat and news 18 aired several segments claiming that the murder was an organised ‘love jihad’ crime. taking issue with the misreporting that the murder was religiously motivated, activist indrajeet ghorpade filed complaints with the nbdsa against himanshu dixit from times now navbharat and against news 18 india’s aman chopra and amish devgan.
news 18 india had conducted four shows, all making claims of ‘love jihad’ in connection to shradda’s murder. an fir is already pending in rajasthan against one of the shows, titled ‘aar paar amish devgan ke saath | love jihad | shraddha murder | aftab amin | debate news’. noting this, the nbdsa excluded this show alone from its ruling as the matter is pending before a court of law. accordingly, the nbdsa confined its investigation to the following three shows conducted by aman and amish:
love jihad bahana, ek mahzab nishana ? desh nahin jhukne denge aman chopra ke saath
desh nahin jhukne denge aman chopra ke saath| shraddha murder case | aaftab | mehrauli murder
aar paar amish devgan ke saath live | shraddha murder case | aftab narco test | love jihad
the nbdsa called it “inappropriate” to link shradda’s murder to ‘love jihad’ as the anchors used the “premise to paint/target an entire community instead of blaming a few miscreants for murder and violence.” it further said that the targeted narrative “was evident from the statements made by the anchors during the impugned broadcasts, including the repeated references linking the term love jihad’ to the shraddha walker murder case and the usage of the hashtag #lovejihadfiles in the second and fourth broadcasts in relation to a particular community.”
apart from being directed to remove the videos, news 18 india has been fined with rs 50,000 for “violating the principles of neutrality, impartiality and accuracy under the code of ethics and the specific guidelines covering reportage relating to racial and religious harmony.”
similarly, times now navbharat’s himanshu dixit has been criticised by the nbdsa who said, “it appears that at the very beginning of the broadcast, the anchor had concluded that men from a certain community lured women from another community by hiding their religious identity and then committed violence or murders against such women and every such violence or murder committed on women of a certain community are related to ‘love jihad’.”
“this is evident from the questions raised and statements made by the anchor during the impugned broadcast. when some of the panellists expressed their concerns regarding the communal angle being given to such alleged incidents and regarding selective cases of violence against women where the perpetrator belonged to a particular community, the anchor shouted them down and did not allow them to express their views,” the nbdsa further noted.
the nbdsa also expressly stated, “there may be some instances where boys from a particular community married hindu girls. however, such instances should not lead to making generalised statements regarding inter-faith marriages by giving them a communal colour. every citizen, from whichever religion, has a right to marry a person of his/her choice, irrespective of the religion to which he/she belongs. merely because a hindu girl married a boy of another faith would not be tantamount to ‘love jihad’ unless it is established that such a hindu girl was duped or coerced into the marriage. further, because of few incidents of such forced marriages, an entire community cannot be branded.”
the tickers in himanshu’s show variously claimed:
“jihadiyo se beti bachao” (“save girls from jihadis”);
“desh mein love jihad ka sach (“the truth about love jihad”): church ka dava, 10,000 isali ladkiya bani shikar”
“desh mein love jihad ka sach: vhp ke muatbik 2009-2022 mein 400 case” (“according to vhp there were 400 love jihad cases in 2009-2022”)
“desh mein love jihad ka sach: sirf 2023 mein love jihad ke 153 case” (153 cases of love jihad in 2023)
“desh mein love jihad ka sach: hyderabad mein 2000 ladkiya gayab, love jihad ka shak” (2000 women missing in hyderabad, love jihad suspected).
times now has been fined rs 1 lakh and told to remove the video from the channel’s website, youtube, and all hyperlinks.
meanwhile, aaj tak has been pulled up for reports in the wake of the ram navami violence in 2022. anchor sudhir chaudhary had claimed that muslim-dominated neighbourhoods were dangerous to those of other religions and that such neighbourhoods were “spreading” across india. sudhir aired several offensive tickers that claimed: “aaj muslim ilaake, kal muslim bharat” (today a muslim neighbourhood, tomorrow a muslim india) and “aaj ilaake, kal zilla, parso desh” (today a neighbourhood, tomorrow a district and day after that, the whole country). sudhir also compared the borders of muslim neighbourhoods to india’s international borders with china and pakistan, claiming that the former was just as dangerous to visit as the latter. he further made remarks asking if there were any “hindu, sikh, jain, parsi or christian neighbourhoods” implying that only muslims lived in exclusive areas.
while aaj tak has not been fined, they have been directed to remove the video from their website and youtube. the nbdsa also observed, “there would have been no problem with the broadcast if the broadcaster had confined its analysis to the incidents of communal violence. however, by broadcasting the following tickers “aaj mushm ilaake, kal muslim bharat” and “aaj ilaaka, kal silla, parso desh” and “aapne kabhi sikh ya parsi ilaaka suna bai” during the programme, a completely different colour had been given to the programme.”
the nbdsa further added, “incidents of communal violence committed by a few miscreants had been generalised by the anchor to target a particular community. this is evident from the statements made by the anchor in the broadcast.”
###
lpd-talks-crime-prevention-efforts-recent-uptick-gun-violence-spikes-fear: 
lpd talks crime prevention efforts as recent uptick in gun violence spikes fear
lynchburg, va. (wdbj) - after a series of violent crimes with guns in the hill city, the community is talking again about how to deal with crime, including discussions with the lynchburg police department.
after recent shootings, lpd acted fast, making effective arrests in short time frames. adam sexton, lieutenant with the department, says this wouldn’t be possible without the close bond they have with the community.
“our community partners are invaluable. we work very hard and very diligently to make sure those partnerships are strong... all these parts come together to help us best do what we can do and try to reduce crime,” said lt. sexton.
overall crime in the city has dropped to its lowest in 5 years.
“prior to june of 2023, we were more of a reactive agency in terms of how we address crime and how we respond to crime,” said lt. sexton.
beginning in june 2023, lpd started its stratified policing approach, working to address what is leading the city’s youth to engage in criminal activity.
“stratified policing approach is we identify problem areas, we identify problem locations and repeat incident locations and these are all calls for service-based,” lt. sexton said.
locations within the city generating the most calls for service then get assigned an officer who works in the area to reduce crime.
“officers being out there, conducting directed patrols in these areas, having targeted active patrols, being proactive,” said lt. sexton.
from 2022, compared to 2023, the department has seen firearm-related violent offenses decrease by 34%. police say this is another success of their stratified approach, and their relationship with community partners.
“we want to make sure we are there serving the community whether it be serving on boards and getting involved... just have that presence and make sure those partnerships are strong,” said lt. sexton.
lpd is asking for the public’s help in solving crime. any business in the city, can give lpd access to their security cameras in case of a crime in the area.
people can also contact crime stoppers at (888) 798-5900 to report a crime. anonymous tips can be entered online at p3tips.com or by using the p3 app on a mobile device.
copyright 2024 wdbj. all rights reserved.
###
24147501.crimestoppers-wanted-men-london: 
crimestoppers has named seven men of the uk's most wanted men who could be in london.
the crimestoppers charity brings together appeals and information published by the country’s police forces to bring criminals to justice.
these are the wanted men who could be in london as of february 2024.
if you see any of these men, do not approach them.
call crimestoppers on 0800 555 111 or call police on 101.
crimestoppers is an independent charity which gives the public the power to report crime 100% anonymously.
nathan paul savage
nathan paul savage is wanted on suspicion of criminal damage, possession of an offensive weapon and malicious communications.
the crimes are said to have taken place on colborne way in sutton on january 12, 2022.
he is between 35 and 40 years old, approximately 6ft2 and of medium build.
he has ginger hair and a beard.
savage also has a 1cm cut on his right cheek and a tattoo saying sam on his right forearm.
ernie hider
ernie hider is wanted on suspicion of a commercial burglary that occurred on october 7 last year.
the burglary is said to have taken place on cranford lane in hounslow.
hider is aged between 20 and 25, approximately 5ft10 and has straight blonde hair.
callum dempster-love
callum dempster-love is wanted for failing to attend his court date, where he was due to appear accused of the rape of a child under 16.
the offence took place in dunswell, a village in yorkshire.
although he’s from hull, dempster-love is believed to have connections in london, wales, and scotland.
he is described as 20-25, approximately 5ft10 and of large build.
he also goes by callum lewis dempster or callum melbourne.
if you see him, or know where he is, do not approach him but instead call police immediately on 101 quoting investigation reference 22000058343.
noor alam
noor alam was an imam at a mosque in northampton when he is alleged to have been involved in sexual offences against young girls, crimestoppers says.
it is understood that he frequents the tower hamlets area.
he has black hair and a beard and is aged between 35 and 40.
zulfkar sheblan
zulfkar sheblan, aka ziddy, is suspected to have been part of a crime group in south wales which supplied large amounts of heroin and cocaine in cardiff and newport.
he is known to frequent london, cardiff and dubai.
he is 30 to 35 years old and approximately 5'10".
a reward of £1,000 is available to anyone who gives information which leads to his arrest.
mark stinton
mark stinton is wanted in connection with a serious assault that took place in southwick, sussex in september 2021.
he has links to both sussex and london and is aged between 35 and 40.
he also goes by marc anthony stinton or marc swinton.
ato kwarne siaw
ato kwarne siaw is wanted on recall to prison after his licence was revoked due to a breach of conditions.
he is said to have cut off his electronic tag and did not keep probation appointments.
he is from wimbledon, is aged 40 to 45 and is approximately 6ft tall.
siaw has black hair, a goatee and is of slim build.
he has a tattoo on his neck with the name leona and a date of birth.
comments: our rules
we want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. the ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
please report any comments that break our rules.read the rules here
###
108120686.cms: 
ballo (bathinda): punjab farmer shubhkaran singh was finally laid to rest at his native village of ballo in bathinda district on thursday, eight days after the 22-year-old's death due to a suspected bullet wound during clashes between protesting farmers and haryana police at khanauri border point on feb 21.
the cremation ceremony happened after punjab police registered an fir under murder charges against unidentified persons, and an autopsy was conducted on wednesday.
the final journey of shubhkaran began from patiala-based rajindra hospital in an ambulance. "my son gave his life for a cause, and it will be a big tribute if that is accomplished," his father charanjit singh said.
sanyukt kisan morcha (non political) and kisan mazdoor morcha, the two groups leading the farm agitation, postponed the announcement of their future course of action by a day.
on thursday, punjab and haryana high court censured authorities for the delay in registering an fir regarding shubhkaran's death and conducting his autopsy. hc asked punjab govt to produce a translated version of the fir, written in punjabi, and the autopsy report.
###
24156008.couple-made-60k-selling-puppies-sentenced-benefit-fraud: 
a couple who made around £60,000 from breeding puppies were sentenced for benefit fraud.
kelly nicholls, age 30, and antony wilkins, age 34, of oakley court, kempsford, pocketed more than £25,000 worth of benefits that they were not entitled to over a two-year period, gloucester crown court heard on friday, march 1.
prosecutor ehsanul oarith said that between february 2020 and december 2022 the couple made £61,885 through dog breeding which would have led to a cut in their benefits if the income had been declared.
the couple both pleaded guilty to failing to notify the department of work and pensions of a change in their incomes which would have affected their entitlement to universal credit.
nicholls also admitted failing to notify cotswold district council of her dog breeding earnings during the same period, thereby receiving more housing benefit than she was entitled to.
judge rupert lowe sentenced her to a £100 fine, a £90 victim surcharge and ordered her to pay £3,500 compensation at the rate of £150 a month.
a community order was also imposed on wilkins which states that he must take undertake 120 hours of unpaid work plus ten rehabilitation activity days.
mr oarith told the court that nicholls had made an application for universal credit in february, 2020 but did not reveal that she was making money from breeding dogs and selling puppies.
he added that there were several subsequent occasions when she did not declare the puppy income although she had the opportunity to do so.
the prosecutor said the total benefits overpayment was £23,683 from the dwp and £2,083 from the council.
steven young, defending them both, said they had entered into an agreement to pay just over £2,000 back to the council at £100 a month each.
mr young said: "they are a usually law abiding couple - they are people who want to work but because they have low income jobs they are entitled to benefits.
"they are not backsliders trying to fleece the government of benefits. quite the opposite i submit."
the judge said: "benefits are handed out to people who are in difficult circumstances on the understanding that they will be honest and not decide that it is just free government money and keep it for themselves.
"that is stealing, and that is what i have to sentence you both for."
comments: our rules
we want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. the ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
please report any comments that break our rules.read the rules here
comments are closed on this article
###
house-passes-bill-to-temporarily-fund-the-government-through-march-8: 
the senate has passed a short-term funding bill by a vote of 77-13 to prevent a partial government shutdown friday night.
the bill now goes to president joe biden's desk. the white house tells scripps news that he will sign it, averting a possible partial shutdown until at least march 8, with a full government shutdown possible on march 22 if lawmakers fail to pass additional funding bills.
in a statement on thursday, president biden approved of the short-term problem-solving by congress, but underlined the need for a permanent solution.
"in the days ahead, congress must do its job and pass full-year funding bills that deliver for the american people," president biden wrote. "and house republicans must act on the bipartisan national security supplemental, which already passed the senate with overwhelming bipartisan support and would pass the house if it was brought to a vote."
the news comes hours after the house of representatives voted 320-99 in favor of the bill.
on wednesday night, congressional leaders tentatively agreed to fund some federal agencies until march 8, and the rest until march 22. if this short-term funding extension is signed into law, it will extend funding for half of the government until those dates.
this agreement puts a band-aid on an issue that was supposed to be resolved last year. this is the fourth temporary extension in recent months.
by the end of march, congress is expected to approve over $1.6 trillion in spending for the fiscal year that started on oct. 1. however, the short-term bill approved thursday doesn't include the $95.3 billion in aid the senate approved for ukraine, israel, and taiwan, or the $9 billion allocated for humanitarian aid to civilians in gaza, the west bank and other conflict-affected areas.
“we’ve got a lot of priorities before us, but we have to get the government funded and secure our border and then we’ll address everything else," house speaker mike johnson said tuesday.
trending stories at scrippsnews.com
###
1163793-ukraine-commander-claims-downing-russian-jet: 
kyiv: ukrainian air force commander mykola oleshchuk said ukraine had downed a russian su-34 fighter-bomber on saturday.
“the eastern air command confirms the downing of an su-34 fighter-bomber. unfortunately, only one,” oleshchuk said in a post on his telegram channel, where he earlier reported anti-aircraft missiles were deployed against an su-34 and an su-35. reuters could not independently verify the report.
britain passed legislation last october that set tougher rules for social media platforms
last week, india said it uncovered a trafficking network which it said lured young men to take jobs in russia
it was not immediately clear how many migrants were on the boat, the governor told anadolu.
us has been aggressive at responding to what washington considers belligerent behavior by iran
macron caused controversy last month after he said he could not rule out deployment of ground troops in ukraine
pollster say voters are tiring of trudeau, who first took office in november 2015
###
algae-based-packaging-market-size-worth-4675-million-by-2030-industryarc: 
algae based packaging market size worth $467.5 million by 2030: industryarc
the global algae based packaging market size is predicted to reach $467.5 million by 2030, growing at a cagr of 5.8% during the forecast period 2024-2030 according to the latest market research report published by industryarc. : one of the primary drivers of the algae based packaging industry is the increasing emphasis on sustainability. with growing environmental consciousness, both businesses and consumers are looking for eco-friendly alternatives to traditional packaging materials. many governments worldwide are implementing regulations to promote sustainable practices in packaging.
this includes bans on single-use plastics and incentives for using biodegradable materials, such as algae-based packaging. these regulations are driving the adoption of algae-based packaging in various industries., finds industryarc in its recent report, titled "algae based packaging market size, share & trends analysis report by algae type (green algae, brown algae, red algae, blue-green algae), by packaging type (sheets, films, pouches, bags, bottles, boxes, trays, others), by end use (food and beverages, pharmaceutical and healthcare, personal care and cosmetics, electronics, others), by region and segment forecasts, 2023–2030"
request sample research report: https://www.industryarc.com/pdfdownload.php?id=800513
europe is the second largest market:
europe region held a significant revenue share in 2023. the region has emerged as a frontrunner in the global algae-based packaging industry, spearheading innovation and sustainability in packaging solutions. the region's commitment to environmental responsibility and a circular economy has driven the development of algae-based packaging as a viable alternative to traditional materials. algae-based packaging leverages the rapid growth and renewable nature of algae to produce biodegradable, compostable, and lightweight packaging materials, making it a compelling choice in the quest for eco-friendly alternatives. the european union's stringent regulations on single-use plastics and waste management have also provided a strong incentive for the adoption of algae-based packaging solutions. according to european commission, the eu is taking action to combat plastic pollution. single-use plastic plates, cutlery, straws, balloon sticks, and cotton buds will be banned from eu member states' marketplaces on july 3, 2021. furthermore, the same rule applies to cups, food and beverage containers made of expanded polystyrene, and other oxo-degradable plastic products.
algae based packaging market 2024-2030: scope of the report
report metric
details
base year considered
2023
forecast period
2024–2030
cagr
5.8%
market size in 2030
$467.5 million
segments covered
algae type, packaging type, end use and region
geographies covered
north america (u.s., canada and mexico), europe (germany, france, uk, italy, spain, russia and rest of europe), asia-pacific (china, japan, south korea, india, australia, new zealand and rest of asia-pacific), south america (brazil, argentina, chile, colombia and rest of south america), rest of the world (middle east and africa).
key market players
get access to full research report: https://www.industryarc.com/research/algae-based-packaging-market-research-800513
algae based packaging market report – key takeaways:
personal care and cosmetics segment to register highest growth
personal care and cosmetics segment is anticipated to grow at higher cagr during the forecast period. the personal care and cosmetics industry stands out as a segment poised to register the highest growth within the algae-based packaging industry. with an ever-growing global consumer base, this sector is increasingly prioritizing sustainability and eco-consciousness. algae-based packaging aligns perfectly with the industry's demand for eco-friendly, biodegradable packaging solutions, as it combines the dual virtues of product protection and environmental responsibility. this innovative packaging material complements the ethos of the personal care and cosmetics industry by offering a green alternative to traditional plastics, reducing the environmental footprint of beauty and personal care products. additionally, the sensory experience and premium branding that cosmetics and personal care items often require can be enhanced by the unique, customizable nature of algae-based packaging. as a result, both consumers and manufacturers are recognizing the benefits of this sustainable packaging option, making it a segment with exceptional growth potential.
shelf life and durability as a major challenge
shelf life and durability represent a prominent challenge within the algae-based packaging industry. while algae-based materials offer compelling eco-friendly advantages, they often fall short in comparison to traditional plastics when it comes to preserving product integrity and longevity. algae-based packaging materials may not possess the same level of durability and shelf life, which is crucial for goods requiring extended protection and preservation. these limitations is particularly hindering the packaging of perishable items or products that must endure extended storage or transportation periods.
purchase this premium report: https://www.industryarc.com/purchasereport.php?id=800513
key opportunity analysis:
the rising demand for sustainable packaging
the rising demand for sustainable packaging, a compelling market growth opportunity within the algae-based packaging industry. as environmental consciousness intensifies globally, consumers and businesses are actively seeking alternatives to traditional, environmentally harmful packaging materials. algae-based packaging, with its biodegradable and eco-friendly attributes, perfectly aligns with this burgeoning demand for sustainability. this trend extends across various sectors, including food and beverages, cosmetics, and e-commerce, creating a broad spectrum of applications for algae-based packaging solutions. moreover, governments and regulatory bodies worldwide are increasingly imposing stringent regulations on single-use plastics and encouraging the adoption of sustainable packaging options. this paves the way for algae-based packaging to not only meet these compliance requirements but also gain favor as an ecologically responsible choice
collaborations between companies as a market opportunity
collaborations between companies are a pivotal market growth opportunity within the algae-based packaging industry. as sustainability takes center stage, the demand for eco-friendly packaging solutions continues to surge. in response, partnerships between businesses can yield synergistic benefits. for instance, algae-based packaging companies can collaborate with manufacturers of consumer products, creating a win-win scenario.
the former provides innovative and sustainable packaging materials, while the latter ensures a seamless integration of these materials into their supply chains, benefiting from improved environmental credentials and customer appeal. moreover, cross-industry collaborations can lead to the development of new product lines, expanding market reach.
research and development initiatives, shared resources, and expertise exchange can further enhance the quality and appeal of algae-based packaging, making it a more attractive choice for consumers and businesses alike. such partnerships not only drive market growth but also contribute to a more sustainable future, aligning with the global emphasis on eco-conscious practices and products.
if you have any questions, please feel free to contact our experts at:
https://www.industryarc.com/reports/request-quote?id=800513
the report also covers the following areas:
algae based packaging market size and forecast algae based packaging market trends algae based packaging market analysis by end use
algae based packaging market 2024-2030: key highlights
cagr of the market during the forecast period 2024-2030 value chain analysis of key stake holders detailed analysis of market drivers and opportunities during the forecast period algae based packaging market size estimation and forecast analysis and predictions on end users' behavior and upcoming trends competitive landscape and vendor market analysis including offerings, developments, and financials comprehensive analysis of challenges and constraints in the algae based packaging market
covid and ukrainian crisis impact:
the covid-19 pandemic had a significant impact on the algae based packaging industry. supply chain disruptions, reduced production capacity, and shifts in consumer priorities during the pandemic affected the industry's growth. however, the crisis also heightened the focus on sustainable and eco-friendly packaging materials, offering opportunities for algae-based packaging to gain traction as a viable, environmentally conscious alternative in the post-pandemic world.
the russia-ukraine war had a notable impact on the algae based packaging market. due to the geopolitical instability and disruptions in supply chains, there have been challenges in sourcing key raw materials for algae-based packaging production. this has resulted in increased production costs and supply chain disruptions, impacting the market's growth and availability.
to get a customized industry analysis, speak with our research analyst: https://connect.industryarc.com/lite/schedule-a-call-with-our-sales-expert
list of key market players in algae based packaging market:
the global algae based packaging market is fragmented with several global and regional companies operating with expansive manufacturing capabilities and extensive distribution networks. the key companies profiled are listed below:
related reports:
biodegradable packaging market - the biodegradable materials are used for packaging encompass starch-based plastic, polylactic acid (pla), cellulose, gelatin, polycaprolactone, polyhydroxyalkanoates (pha), and others.
biodegradable paper & plastic packaging market - biodegradable plastics such as polyhydroxyalkanoates, polylactic acid and more are primarily in the pharmaceutical industry for packaging various capsules, tablets, powder and other pharmaceutical products.
biodegradable plastic market - biodegradable plastic is plastics derived from renewable biomass, such as starch blends, polycaprolactone, polybutylene adipate terephthalate (pbat), and polylactic acid (pla), and are used to manufacture a wide range of products such as bottles, films, packaged goods, automotive interiors, construction materials, and electronics.
about industryarc™:
industryarc primarily focuses on market research and consulting services specific to cutting edge technologies and newer application segments of the market. the company's custom research services are designed to provide insights into the constant flux in the global demand-supply gap of markets.
industryarc's goal is to provide the right information required by the stakeholder at the right point in time, in a format which assists an intelligent and informed decision-making process.
contact us:
mr. venkat reddy
industryarc
email: sales@industryarc.com
usa: (+1) 518-282-4727
web: https://www.industryarc.com
follow us on: linkedin | facebook | twitter
tags: algae based packaging key companies, algae based packaging market, algae based packaging market forecast, algae based packaging market growth, algae based packaging market report, algae based packaging market research, algae based packaging market share, algae based packaging market size, algae based packaging market trends, algae based packaging top companies
see campaign: https://www.industryarc.com
contact information:
mr. venkat reddy industryarc
email: sales@industryarc.com
usa: (+1) 518-282-4727tags:bnn, extended distribution, icn internal distribution, wire, research newswire, english
###
Humanoid_robotmaker_Figure_partners_with_OpenAI: 
chatgpt-maker openai is looking to fuse its artificial intelligence systems into the bodies of humanoid robots as part of a new deal with robotics startup figure. sunnyvale, california-based figure announced the partnership thursday along with $675 million in venture capital funding from a group that includes... read full story
"if we can just get humanoids to do work that humans are not wanting to do because there's a shortfall of humans, we can sell millions of humanoids, billions maybe,"
ask about this article
related news
humanoid robot-maker figure partners with openai and gets backing from jeff bezos and tech giantsnapa valley register 2024-02-29, 23:22
silicon valley humanoid robot-maker partners with openai and gets backing from jeff bezos and tech giantssiliconvalley.com 2024-03-01, 16:02
humanoid robot maker partners with openaielko daily free press 2024-03-01, 11:30
related news
popular news stories
ap / alex slitz, pool
ap / ariel schalit
ukrainian emergency service via ap photo
ap / fatima shbair
ap / (ukrainian emergency service via ap photo
creative commons / unsplash/add weed
###
team-biden-hopes-trump-own-170000151.html: 
team biden hopes trump is his own worst enemy with independents
- oops!something went wrong.please try again later.
- oops!something went wrong.please try again later.
- oops!something went wrong.please try again later.
president biden’s reelection campaign wants independent swing voters to really hear what former president trump is saying.
trump gets a lot of news coverage, particularly over his legal problems, which appears to be helping him win the gop primary. but the biden campaign thinks that it can emerge victorious in november if people are paying more attention to what trump is saying — particularly what he says he’ll do as president.
they argue this will turn off independent voters and help biden, who is lagging behind in polls, pull off a reelection win.
“we’re lifting the dangerous and unpopular things donald trump says because it’s critical voters know just how devastating a second trump term would be for families across the country,” said t.j. ducklo, a biden senior adviser for communications.
“the voters who will decide this election — the swing voters in the key battleground states, independents and the folks who particularly may not be paying as close attention right now because they’re busy living their lives — those are the folks we’re talking to,” ducklo added.
they are putting muscle into the effort on social media, where they share clips of trump talking about him welcoming the blame for killing the bipartisan border deal, defending himself for mixing up names and other verbal slipups, and saying rep. marjorie taylor greene (r-ga.) is “respected by everybody.”
the idea that biden wants to run against trump and believes his best way to keeping the white house is by demonizing the former president is not new. but with trump now the likely gop nominee and ahead of biden in key polls, the anti-trump operation will only get more intense.
biden led trump by nearly 10 points with independents in 2020, with 52 percent of such voters supported biden, compared to 43 percent backing trump, according to pew research center.
strategists say elevating trump through the biden campaign is a way to recreate that.
“it can remind them of why they turned against trump in 2020,” said gop strategist doug heye, referring to swing voters. “it can have that affect for sure. that may be the bigger target actually than the base.”
the campaign has aggressively gone after trump’s more controversial remarks, including saying recently that black voters were attracted to him because he faced criminal indictments and that he’d serve as a dictator “only on day one” if reelected.
“today’s fractured media environment means everyone is getting their information from more places than ever – which is why it’s our job to capture people’s attention to alarming things trump says when he says them,” ducklo said.
highlighting these types of comments from the former president can attracts the press, who in turn can report on it so swing voters see it, backers say.
“it’s always smart to be edgy or snarky by highlighting trump’s nutty rhetoric. their stuff is definitely creative and clever, and i assume it grabs the attention of their intended audience — the press. when journalists and legacy media pick up and amplify their content, they can reach even more people,” said michael larosa, former press secretary to first lady jill biden and special assistant to biden.
heye said that part of the reason why the campaign lifts up trump’s comments is that he isn’t dominating the media like he did in 2016 and 2020.
“the biden campaign wants to, i think, make sure that on some of the more far-fetched or outrageous things that he says that the base or disaffected voters are reminded that they voted against the sequel to the to the movie one time and to try and push them to do it again,” he said.
meanwhile, there’s no shortage of media attention on trump’s legal troubles.
his four criminal indictments are well-documented by the media, and his trials are consistently covered on television and in print media.
the biden campaign shares clips of trump when he’s running for president, instead of when he’s defendant trump sitting in courtrooms.
“we’re focused on this election, not on donald trump’s personal problems,” ducklo said. “what he says about immigrants ‘poising the blood of our country,’ about banning muslims, imposing a national abortion ban, his refusal to protect ivf — these affect people’s lives. this election is not about what happens to donald trump. like all elections, it’s about what happens to voters’ lives.”
the effort to elevate trump’s rhetoric comes as biden has struggled in polls with independent voters. trump outpaced biden by 11 points with independent voters in a messenger/harris poll in january. the former president garnered 46 percent, biden got 35 percent and 20 percent said they were undecided.
independents nearly split their vote in 2016, with 43 percent supporting trump and 42 percent supporting democratic nominee hillary clinton.
biden’s lead over trump with the independent voting bloc in 2020 was essential to his success in winning back swing states clinton had lost.
an alum of biden’s 2020 campaign said the team highlighting trump’s remarks to attract swing voters isn’t a substitute for the president taking on trump’s words himself, suggesting biden confront his rival head on.
“while the content creation and rapid response are supplemental components to communicating, the impact is far more consequential when voters and the media see or hear the candidate punching the other guy in the face,” the source said. “it’s hard to land punches on trump with meaningful impact if biden isn’t the one confronting him.”
for the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to the hill.
###
bjp-worker-killed-by-friends-party-says-law-and-order-situation-deteriorating-101709320042368.html: 
bjp worker killed by friends, party says law and order situation deteriorating
bjp worker killed in karnataka's kalaburagi district, second such incident in 24 hours. police suspect old rivalries behind the crimes. bjp demands action.
a bharatiya janata party (bjp) worker was allegedly killed in karnataka’s kalaburagi district, police said on friday. police said the incident took place around 11pm on thursday in the saganur village. just four days ago, girish babu chakra, an aide and supporter of kalaburagi mp umesh jadhav, was appointed as the district bsnl advisory committee member.
he was lured by his friends to a farm for a celebratory gathering where the assailants threw chilli powder into his eyes and killed him with a machete, police said.
“preliminary investigation revealed that three friends of the deceased invited him to a party to celebrate his appointment as a district bsnl advisory committee member. all had consumed alcohol and taking advantage of the victim’s inebriated state, they killed him using a machete. prima facie, it seems old rivalry is the motive behind the murder. we have definite clues about the accused and have formed three teams to arrest them. they will be held by today (friday) evening,’’ said the deputy superintendent of police (dsp) of aland mohammed shariff.
the officer added that a case has been registered at ganagapura police station and an investigation is underway.
this is the second such alleged killing of a bjp member in kalaburagi in last 24 hours.
on thursday morning, bjp leader mahanthappa siddaramappa alure (45) was allegedly hacked to death by some assailants at sarasamba village in aland town who were later arrested.
mahanthappa, a prominent figure in the village, served as the president of the dhanalakshmi cooperative society and was elected as a member of the gram panchayat for three consecutive terms.
“early on thursday, mahanthappa was on his way to fetch milk from the cow tied in his field when he was intercepted by four men near gescom office who came in a car. without any warning, they attacked him brutally with weapons before fleeing the spot,” said the dsp.
nearby people, who saw the alleged murder, rushed the bjp leader to solapur hospital in maharashtra, however, he succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment, said police. police suspect old rivalry behind the crime.
“we are questioning the four arrested people to know more details about the murder,” the police officer stated.
meanwhile, bjp has expressed outrage that district in-charge minister priyank kharge has failed to put a check on rising murder and extortion cases in the district.
“since priyank kharge has become the district in-charge minister, murders and extortions in kalaburagi have rose manyfold. in these 10 months, bjp workers and leaders are being killed one after the other. kharge, who has handed over kalaburagi to gangsters, is directly responsible for this,” bjp’s state unit said on x.
the opposition party has demanded that karnataka chief minister siddaramaiah immediately sack kharge, who has undermined law and order in kalaburagi.
get current updates on india news, pm narendra modi in kerala live , electoral bonds data live , lok sabha election 2024 date along with latest news and top headlines from india and around the world.
###
indian-classical-dancer-amarnath-ghosh-killed-in-us-chicago-consulate-says-it-has-taken-up-case-strongly-with-american-authorities.html: 
indian classical dancer amarnath ghosh killed in us, chicago consulate says it has taken up case strongly with american authorities
the indian consulate in chicago has said it has strongly taken up the case of indian classical dancer amarnath ghosh with the st louis police for investigation.
the consulate also offered condolences to the family members over the death of the dancer who was allegedly shot dead in st louis, missouri in the united states by unknown attackers.
"deep condolences to family & friends of deceased amarnath ghosh in stlouis, missouri. we are following up forensic, investigation with police & providing support. @indianembassyus @meaindia," the indian consulate in chicago posted on x.
"consulate is extending all help to relatives of deceased amarnath ghosh. taken up the case strongly with st louis police and the university for investigation of the reprehensible gun attack. @indianembassyus @meaindia," the post said.
the incident was flagged by television actress devoleena bhattacharjee who recently wrote on x: "my friend #amarnathghosh was shot & killed in st louis academy neigbourhood, us on tuesday evening."
consulate is extending all help to relatives of deceased amarnath ghosh. taken up the case strongly with st louis police and the university for investigation of the reprehensible gun attack. @indianembassyus @meaindia— india in chicago (@indiainchicago) march 2, 2024
she further said: "only child in the family, mother died 3 years back. father passed away during his childhood."
she said the danced hailed from the east indian city of kolkata.
my friend #amarnathghosh was shot & killed in st louis academy neigbourhood, us on tuesday evening.— devoleena bhattacharjee (@devoleena_23) march 1, 2024
only child in the family, mother died 3 years back. father passed away during his childhood.
well the reason , accused details everything are not revealed yet or perhaps no one…
"well the reason , accused details everything are not revealed yet or perhaps no one left in his family to fight for it except his few friends. he was from kolkata. excellent dancer , was pursuing phd , was taking an evening walk and suddenly he was shot multiple times by an unknown," the actress wrote on x.
she tagged external affairs minister s jaishankar and indian pm narendra modi in her post.
several indians were reported dead in separate incidents across the first two months of the year.
support our journalism
we cannot do without you.. your contribution supports unbiased journalism
ibns is not driven by any ism- not wokeism, not racism, not skewed secularism, not hyper right-wing or left liberal ideals, nor by any hardline religious beliefs or hyper nationalism. we want to serve you good old objective news, as they are. we do not judge or preach. we let people decide for themselves. we only try to present factual and well-sourced news.
###
dead-homicide-shooting-stabbing-denver-girard-ursula-police: 
two men died in separate homicides — a stabbing and a shooting — overnight friday in denver, police announced saturday.
denver police investigators were on the scene of a fatal shooting in the 9800 block of east girard avenue just after 11 p.m. friday, according to a post from the department on x.
an adult man was found dead at the scene who was identified as derrick rogers in a wednesday release from the denver office of the medical examiner. in an update at 4:52 a.m. saturday, the police department announced his death was being investigated as a homicide.
just 10 miles north, denver police were investigating a second homicide — a fatal stabbing in the 4900 block of north ursula street, according to a post from the department at 12:30 a.m. saturday. a second, unrelated adult man, who was identified as deshaun lockett in the same release, was pronounced dead at the scene and the police department announced his death was being investigated as a homicide in a 4:47 a.m. update saturday.
the two investigations are ongoing and anyone with information is asked to contact metro denver crime stoppers at 720-913-7867 or through their online tip system.
sign up to get crime news sent straight to your inbox each day.
updated at 5:57 p.m. wednesday, march 6, 2024: this story was updated to include the identities of the men who were killed.
###
nova-scotia-province-wide-universal-school-lunch-program: 
nova scotia is gearing up to launch a province-wide universal school lunch program as part of its recently announced 2024-25 budget.
on thursday, nova scotia’s finance and treasury board minister allan macmaster tabled the province’s $16.5 billion plan — which included an $18.8 million investment toward developing a new lunch program for students in public schools. the initiative is expected to launch throughout the course of the next four years.
becky druhan, the province’s education minister, described the move as a “historic step” and said students will be granted access to affordable meals in every school once the program is fully implemented.
“we do need to phase our implementation to get it right. we’re starting with a focus on elementary schools,” she said, adding that the first part of the program’s launch will occur when school returns in the fall.
“when it’s completely rolled out, every student across the province will have access to universal school lunch.”
she said the school lunch program will be affordable for all families and free “for those who need it.”
in addition, druhan mentioned on thursday that the provincial government will collaborate with community groups and volunteer organizations that already providing similar services at schools in the province.
“existing school food programs, they are successful because of the involvement of volunteers, communities, donors, and of partners. those folks bring so much benefit beyond the provision of food,” she said to reporters on thursday.
“we want to make sure we leverage that … those relationships will continue to be incredibly important.”
‘more needs to be done’
lina hamid, a representative of the united way, described the program proposal as a “fantastic start” but said she would like to see more initiatives brought forth to fill the void outside of school hours.
“there’s a lot of food insecurity out there,” she said.
“it might not always be visible, so having something in place for the children during the school year is great. however, it doesn’t address the summer months, weekends, holidays, and everything in between the school days.”
although hamid says the program is a step in the right direction, she noted that it doesn’t offer a full-stop solution. she said the province needs to offer more financial support for families to prevent food insecurity altogether.
“for households to have the freedom and choice to prepare the meals they want … we know income support can do that. i think it’s a fantastic program, a great first start, but there’s a lot of food insecurity out there and more needs to be done to address it,” she said.
“it’s a pretty big deal. that’s (the lunch program) something we should be very excited about, but we need to think about how we can further address food insecurity and take it a step further.”
according to data presented in a recent report from the canadian centre for policy alternatives, nova scotia has the fourth-highest child poverty rate in the country and the highest in atlantic canada.
the child poverty rate in nova scotia rose to 20.5 per cent in 2021, representing more than one in five children.
wendie wilson, a community worker who works with food secure canada, agreed the program is a good first step but said she’d like to see politicians outside nova scotia get on board with the plan.
“wouldn’t it be fantastic if the federal government would be able to match that?” she asked, adding that she hopes businesses located near schools will receive an economic benefit once the program launches.
“i want to see dollars being spent in the community in order to build capacity, skills, and sustainability as well.”
although the program could provide some temporary relief, wilson said the bigger issue is investing in larger solutions to prevent child poverty and food insecurity altogether.
“food does not solve food insecurity,” she said.
“getting a free lunch at school isn’t really solving the issue. the issue is really more around income. that’s why i’d like to see these dollars pull back into the community with those who are impacted the most by food insecurity.
“if we’re able to shop locally … then what we’re doing is increasing amongst those who are impacted the most.”
brendan maguire, a former liberal mla who recently joined tim houston’s progressive conservatives and was appointed as minister of community service, applauded the inclusion of the universal school lunch program in the budget.
“a lot of us in that house have advocated for, for a long time, the lunch program. as a father of three, i know how much that will save me,” he said.
“this is something that is going to save nova scotians thousands of dollars a year.”
###
conspiracy-to-overthrow-the-united-states-trump-accuses-biden-of-giving-aid-and-comfort-to-enemies: 
‘conspiracy to overthrow the united states!’ trump accuses biden of giving ‘aid and comfort’ to enemies
former president donald trump made a particularly stunning claim at a get out the vote rally in greensboro, nc, saturday, declaring that president joe biden was part of a “conspiracy to overthrow the united states of america.”
after repeating false claims about the 2020 presidential race being a “rigged election,” trump got to the meat-and-potatoes portion of his speech: blaming joe biden for the border crisis.
“every day, joe biden is giving aid and comfort to the foreign enemies of the united states. he’s actually giving aid,” trump said, continuing:
and they don’t respect us anymore as a country. three years ago, we were more respected than ever before, and now they have no respect for us whatsoever. and putin, yesterday is talking about nuclear. did you hear that, right? nuclear. he wouldn’t be talking about nuclear if i were here, he wouldn’t be talking about it.
biden’s conduct on our border is, by any definition, a conspiracy to overthrow the united states of america. you know, he talks about democracy. he is a danger to democracy. he is. number one, he goes after his political opponent, which nobody’s ever done in this country. they do it in third world countries very well. they do it.
but they’re not going to succeed with us. they’re not going to succeed. it’s making us stronger. it’s making us stronger. biden and his accomplices want to collapse the american system, nullify the will of the actual american voters, and establish a new base of power that gives them control for generations.
trump’s claim that biden is persecuting him as a political opponent stems from the doj’s case to hold trump accountable for allegedly trying to block the peaceful transfer of power in 2020. the former president faces felony charges of working to overturn the results of the 2020 presidential election and fomenting the jan. 6 riots at the u.s. capitol.
immigration took center stage this week as both trump and biden visited different border towns in texas. biden was criticized for choosing the town of brownsville, which has seen far fewer migrants than eagle pass, where trump was joined by texas gov. greg abbott (r-tx).
have a tip we should know? tips@mediaite.com
###
2-ontario-broodmares-positive-for-strangles: 
2 ontario broodmares positive for strangles
on february 27, two broodmares on a farm in wellington, ontario, were confirmed positive for strangles. the horses developed clinical signs on february 23, including fever, nasal discharge, and enlarged lymph nodes, after commingling with horses from other farms. the horses are under quarantine, and the owner is working with their veterinarian to control the outbreak.
edcc health watch is an equine network marketing program that utilizes information from the equine disease communication center (edcc) to create and disseminate verified equine disease reports. the edcc is an independent nonprofit organization that is supported by industry donations in order to provide open access to infectious disease information.
about strangles
strangles in horses is an infection caused by streptococcus equi subspecies equi and spread through direct contact with other equids or contaminated surfaces. horses that aren’t showing clinical signs can harbor and spread the bacteria, and recovered horses remain contagious for at least six weeks, with the potential to cause outbreaks long-term.
infected horses can exhibit a variety of clinical signs:
- fever
- swollen and/or abscessed lymph nodes
- nasal discharge
- coughing or wheezing
- muscle swelling
- difficulty swallowing
veterinarians diagnose horses using polymerase chain reaction (pcr) testing with either a nasal swab, wash, or an abscess sample, and they treat most cases based on clinical signs, implementing antibiotics for severe cases. overuse of antibiotics can prevent an infected horse from developing immunity. most horses make a full recovery in three to four weeks.
a vaccine is available but not always effective. biosecurity measures of quarantining new horses at a facility and maintaining high standards of hygiene and disinfecting surfaces can help lower the risk of outbreak or contain one when it occurs.
written by:
related articles
stay on top of the most recent horse health news with
###
wta-names-the-2024-teleport-executive-of-the-year: 
the world teleport association (wta) has named sergey raber, coo and director of operations at axess networks, as the 2024 teleport executive of the year.
the award will be presented at the 2024 teleport awards for excellence luncheon on march 19 during the satellite 2024 conference in washington, dc. the teleport executive of the year award is presented to an individual for demonstrated entrepreneurship, leadership and innovation in the development or operation of a teleport-based business.
“teleports are part of the ‘always on’ economy, where even tiny lapses in availability or information rate are a serious matter,” said executive director robert bell. “the people who head operations are the unsung heroes of our industry, and sergey raber is a prime example, not only for the company’s high quality of service but for contributing to everything from customer management to mergers and acquisitions. wta is proud to single him out for our annual award.”
sergey raber has served as coo and director of operations at axess networks’ german office in ruppichteroth for 16 years. he joined cetel as a project manager in 2006 prior to its acquisition by axess networks. in his current position, mr. raber is responsible for management of teleport operations, pre-sales and engineering, crm system optimization and m&a assistance, in addition to expanding the company’s maritime support and integration of new services as well as its automation and orchestration services in the noc. he was responsible for developing axess networks’ in-house monitoring system and its in-house helpdesk system.
before joining axess networks, mr. raber worked as a scientist, conducting research in the field of satellite telecommunications at gmd/fraunhofer fokus in st. augustin, germany. he participated in multiple international scientific projects during his 9 years as a researcher. mr. raber began his career as an engineer at optima jsc in moscow, russia, while completing his studies at the moscow state institute for electronics and mathematics. he also later received a masters of business administration from the university of wales in 2013. mr. raber has provided his technical insights in several publications, including satellite isp market, future mobile communication networks and multiple wta research reports, he has also collaborated on training, certification, publication and study programs with multiple major industry players, including newtec, ses, arabsat, eutelsat, hispasat, comtech, uhp, vertex and kratos.
select this link for a complete list of past awardees…
###
13601: 
new belgian international branding campaign highlights openness to innovation
the new belgian international branding campaign centres around “embracing openness”. primarily targeted at economic decision makers and the broader research community, the initiative has been launched by the fps chancellery of the prime minister to strengthen belgium’s openness for innovation, as supported by partnerships and diversity. the campaign will run until april 2026.
belgium is open to innovation, partnerships, and diversity
a strategic survey conducted by the fps foreign affairs, foreign trade and development cooperation in 2022 revealed that belgium is generally held in high regard by the international community. opinion leaders from around the world expressed their positive perception of belgium as a country, highlighting its open-mindedness, innovative spirit, willingness to collaborate, and commitment to the rule of law and human rights.
the survey further indicated that belgium has a favourable reputation among researchers, opinion leaders, investors, and ngos. however, it was found that the country lacks sufficient visibility and often displays excessive modesty.
these survey findings have served as the basis for belgium's new country branding strategy, along with an accompanying campaign that emphasizes belgium's commitment to innovation, partnership, and diversity, encapsulated in the baseline "embracing openness".
belgium's commitment to openness for innovation in difficult times
“whether it is the production of covid vaccines, pioneering biotech and semiconductor research, or our leading role in offshore energy, belgium has consistently shown that openness for innovation is vital for a successful society. embracing partnerships and diversity is an integral part of this. by collaborating across different perspectives, building bridges, and forging alliances, we can make substantial progress both economically and socially. this approach is an essential part of belgium’s dna. while others might choose to isolate themselves, belgium radically choses for openness as the way forward.” – belgian prime minister alexander de croo, announcing the launch of the "embracing openness" campaign.
embracing innovation – to tackle tomorrow’s challenges
to meet challenges such as climate change, european strategic autonomy and security of energy supplies, the campaign will showcase belgium’s innovative side.
with a proven track record in technological and scientific excellence, belgium is a bustling hub of innovation. notable belgian achievements include leading the charge in biopharma r&d, nanoelectronics, and offshore energy combined with world-class research institutions and universities.
belgium is driving the high-tech chip revolution through collaboration between its imec laboratories and ku leuven, named the seventh most innovative university in the world by reuters. in addition, thanks to research from ghent university, ulb & vub, belgium is leading the way on medical discoveries on life-altering conditions including cancer, alzheimer’s, and aids.
as for the energy transition, belgium has co-founded the north sea coalition to create the largest source of renewable energy in europe, aiming to quadruple combined offshore wind capacity to 65 gigawatts by 2030 and to at least 150 gigawatts by 2050.
driving progress and innovation with the support of partnerships
the campaign will also show how innovation and sustainable solutions for the public good are made possible through partnerships. because no single entity can tackle complex problems and fully capitalize on opportunities alone.
this sense of cooperation is ingrained in belgium's dna. it is no coincidence that belgium, a founding member of both the united nations, nato and the european union, hosts key european and international organisations. belgium will place a special emphasis on promoting partnerships for innovation during its upcoming 2024 presidency of the council of the eu.
fostering prosperous innovation with diversity at heart
more than ever, belgium fosters its belief in the virtues of an open, tolerant, and inclusive society to boost innovation and ensure progress and prosperity for all.
“embracing openness” will show that belgium is a shared home of many communities and cultures with diversity at its heart – as evidenced by its ranking in second place in the rainbow index, its third place in the kof globalisation index, as well as its participation in the global shedecides movement and its co-supervisory role in the international convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination.
a multi-channel campaign telling belgium’s story
as a nation, belgium is not known for heavily promoting its achievements. as the campaign helps to address this, it has invited people from other countries to share their feelings on why belgium is great; perspectives captured in the new campaign baseline: “we don’t say belgium is great, others do”.
the campaign is based on people from other countries who will talk about their experiences with belgium and belgians in their own language. with stories that focus on the three pillars of the campaign: innovation, partnerships, and diversity. this mix is precisely what makes belgium unique.
through digital channels and stakeholder activation events, the new campaign aims to enhance belgium's global presence, attract investors and researchers, and showcase its prominent industries, all while upholding fundamental belgian values.
the "embracing openness" campaign’s goal is to contribute positively to the reputation of belgium on the international stage. the campaign will also be promoted through belgian embassies and diplomatic posts across the world.
the new belgian country branding will be visible at brussels airport, extending a warm welcome to international travellers, professionals, and innovation partners. the twentieth anniversary of the legalization of same-sex marriage in belgium in june was one of the campaign’s first milestones.
in the coming years, additional campaign moments will align with trade missions, international conferences, and stakeholder events. with a global perspective, the campaign will initially concentrate on europe, preparing for belgium's upcoming presidency of the council of the european union, starting in 2024.
for more info, please visit www.embracingopenness.be
follow us on:
facebook: https://facebook.com/belgium
instagram: https://www.instagram.com/belgium/
twitter: https://twitter.com/belgium
linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/company/belgium
###
?p=326418: 
occupied jerusalem, sana- at least 17 palestinians were martyred and dozens were injured in the israeli occupation air strikes on homes in deir al-balah and jabalia in the stricken gaza strip.
palestinian media reported that the occupation aircraft bombed three houses east of the city of deir al-balah in the center of gaza and in jabalia camp to the north, killing 17 palestinians and injuring dozens, indicating that civil defense staff are still searching for victims under the rubble.
tens of palestinians were martyred and others were injured yesterday as a result of bombing by the occupation forces on different areas in gaza. according to the palestinian ministry of health, the number of martyrs from the ongoing israeli aggression on the strip since october 7th reached 30,228 martyrs.
mazen eyon
###
news-outlets-express-solidarity-with-journalists-in-gaza: 
at a november 19 funeral, palestinians mourn local journalists hassouneh salim and sari mansour, killed in an israeli airstrike in central gaza on november 18. (photo: reuters/stringer)
new york, february 29, 2024—the leaders of more than 30 news organizations from across the world, including the associated press, agence france-presse, and reuters, have joined an open letter affirming their solidarity with journalists reporting in gaza.
the letter, coordinated by the committee to protect journalists (cpj) with the support of the world association of news publishers (wan-ifra), demonstrates strong and unified support for colleagues reporting from gaza in the deadliest conflict for journalists ever documented by cpj.
“for nearly five months, journalists and media workers in gaza – overwhelmingly, the sole source of on-the-ground reporting from within the palestinian territory – have been working in unprecedented conditions,” the letter reads. “…these journalists – on whom the international news media and the international community rely for information about the situation inside gaza – continue to report despite grave personal risk.”
the letter goes on to remind the international community that journalists are civilians and authorities must protect journalists as noncombatants according to international law.
a total of at least 94 journalists have been killed in the israel-gaza war; the majority of them (89) were palestinians killed by the israeli military.
the signatories include outlets from estonia, france, germany, ireland, israel, india, japan, jordan, kenya, lebanon, mexico, pakistan, the philippines, qatar, south africa, the united kingdom, and the united states.
additional signatories are welcome. please contact letter@cpj.org to add your organization, including name of signatory, title, and name of organization.
open letter on journalists in gaza
we, the undersigned, stand united with palestinian journalists in their call for safety, protection, and the freedom to report.
for nearly five months, journalists and media workers in gaza – overwhelmingly, the sole source of on-the-ground reporting from within the palestinian territory – have been working in unprecedented conditions: at least 89 have been killed in the war, according to the committee to protect journalists, more journalists than have ever been killed in a single country over an entire year.
these journalists – on whom the international news media and the international community rely for information about the situation inside gaza – continue to report despite grave personal risk. they continue despite the loss of family, friends, and colleagues, the destruction of homes and offices, constant displacement, communications blackouts, and shortages of food and fuel.
journalists are civilians and israeli authorities must protect journalists as noncombatants according to international law. those responsible for any violations of that longstanding protection should be held accountable. attacks on journalists are also attacks on truth. we commit to championing the safety of journalists in gaza, which is fundamental for the protection of press freedom everywhere.
signatories
- kim godwin, president, abc news
- phil chetwynd, global news director, agence france-presse
- hossam kanafani, editor in chief, al-araby al-jadeed
- shiro nakamura, president, the asahi shimbun, japan
- julie pace, executive editor, associated press
- simon spanswick, chief executive, association for international broadcasters
- deborah turness, ceo, bbc news
- mark thompson, chairman and ceo, cnn worldwide
- daoud kuttab, director general, community media network, jordan
- branko brkic, editor in chief, daily maverick, south africa
- alia ibrahim, co-founder / ceo, daraj, lebanon
- roula khalaf, editor, financial times
- katharine viner, editor in chief, the guardian
- aluf benn, editor in chief, haaretz
- geordie grieg, editor in chief, the independent
- sandy prieto-romualdez, chairperson, inquirer group of companies, the philippines
- deirdre veldon, managing director, former deputy editor, the irish times, ireland
- rachel corp, chief executive, itn uk
- andrew dagnell, editor, itv news uk
- terry tang, interim executive editor, los angeles times
- rameeza nizami, managing director, nawaiwaqt group, pakistan
- pamella sittoni, group managing editor, nation media group, kenya
- rebecca blumenstein, president, editorial, nbc news
- david remnick, editor, the new yorker
- ag sulzberger, publisher, the new york times
- martha ramos, president, world editors forum / chief editorial officer, organización editorial mexicana, mexico
- hans väre, editor in chief, postimees grupp, estonia
- alan rusbridger, editor, prospect magazine, uk
- ritu kapur, ceo, the quint, india
- maria ressa, ceo and co-founder, rappler inc.
- alessandra galloni, editor in chief, reuters
- nwabisa makunga, editor in chief, the sowetan, south africa
- dirk kurbjuweit, editor in chief, der spiegel
- wolfgang krach, editor in chief, süddeutsche zeitung, germany
- sally buzbee, executive editor, the washington post
- vincent peyrègne, ceo, world association of news publishers (wan-ifra)
about the committee to protect journalists
the committee to protect journalists is an independent, nonprofit organization that promotes press freedom worldwide. we defend the right of journalists to report the news safely and without fear of reprisal.
###
rep-harriet-hageman-hunter-biden-used-addictions-as-a-sword-and-a-shield: 
wyoming republican rep. harriet hageman, who sits on the house judiciary committee, told the federalist in an exclusive interview after hunter biden’s testimony this week that the president’s son used addiction to escape difficult questions.
whenever biden received tough questions, hageman described the response as “i don’t know, i don’t remember, because i was addicted at that time.” one prominent example came when biden could not recall a meeting between his father and chinese business leaders. biden also played ignorant about the “exact amount” the family received from chinese companies while claiming every gift and transaction was “completely legal” and “incredibly ethical.”
“he was extremely well prepared,” hageman said of biden, who testified in a closed-door deposition wednesday. “his attorneys had spent probably days and days and days with him to make sure he had his story down very well.”
“yet when we tried to get into details,” hageman added, he mostly said, “‘well, i don’t have a memory of that.'” biden’s attorneys were also “incredibly aggressive at trying to deflect difficult questions.”
hageman pressed biden on his qualifications to handle multimillion-dollar deals with international business partners, considering his problems with addiction.
“in terms of what we have seen with some of the photographs, the information from the laptop, the information from your book, i would say that i don’t believe that that represents someone who would be responsible and considered a professional,” hageman said in her wednesday questioning. biden responded with what hageman characterized in her interview with the federalist as “shockingly arrogant.”
“there are a lot of people around this room who suffer from alcoholism that are still in this room and that they’re still functioning,” biden said.
hageman asked whether biden informed associates about his substance abuse.
“it was fairly obvious i had a problem,” biden responded.
hageman said the testimony corroborated what was already obvious to lawmakers, which was that “all of those board positions that he had all came back to the fact that his last name is ‘biden,'” because the younger biden didn’t have anything to offer “other than the access to his father.”
in wednesday’s deposition, hunter biden confirmed such access to his father, which other witnesses have already testified to before lawmakers.
[related: 8 unbelievable claims from hunter biden’s congressional deposition]
on a trip to california, hunter biden conceded his father had coffee at a hotel with tony bobuslinki, a business partner-turned whistleblower who accused the president of being “compromised” by the chinese communist party.
“he met him in the lobby of the hotel,” hunter biden said, according to the transcript of the interview released thursday.
bobulinski told lawmakers earlier in february that joe biden was “the brand” his family sold to foreign adversaries as the former vice president prepared another run for the white house.
“[biden’s] family’s foreign influence peddling operation — from china to ukraine and elsewhere — sold out to foreign actors who were seeking to gain influence and access to joe biden and the united states government,” bobulisnki said. “joe biden was more than a participant in and beneficiary of his family’s business, he was an enabler, despite being buffered by a complex scheme to maintain plausible deniability.”
on wednesday, hunter biden also confirmed that he repeatedly put his father on speakerphone when in the company of clients. last summer, former family business partner devon archer testified hunter biden put foreign businessmen and potential investors on speakerphone with joe biden at least two dozen times.
“yes, that probably did happen,” hunter biden said. “i always answer his call, based upon my life’s experience.”
house republicans interviewed the president’s son as part of an impeachment inquiry after investigators found the bidens funneling millions between more than 20 shell companies. most were set up when joe biden was vice president.
hunter biden’s testimony not only corroborates previous witnesses but also contradicts his father’s vehement denials from the presidential campaign trail. joe biden repeatedly claimed prior to the oval office that he never spoke business with his son, “or with anyone else,” and even fat-shamed an iowa voter who approached the subject in 2019. at a december town hall, the voter pressed the former vice president about hunter biden’s lucrative position on the board of burisma, a ukrainian energy company, despite no prior experience in the industry.
“you’re a damn liar, man,” joe biden said, and went on to challenge the voter to push-ups.
this article has been updated since publication.
###
we-are-with-you-mourners-chant-navalnys-name-as-kremlin-critic-is-laid-to-rest-a84312: 
thousands of mourners gathered in moscow on friday to say goodbye to the late opposition figure alexei navalny, the kremlin’s most prominent critic.
“i glanced back and found myself unable to see where the crowd ended — it seemed to stretch on forever,” said vadim, who attended the funeral ceremony.
despite the risk of detention, official warnings and a heavy police presence, thousands of navalny’s supporters gathered at the russian orthodox church and nearby cemetery in southeastern moscow where his funeral was held to honor his legacy.
“i came today to see for the last time a man like no other in this country, and in the whole world,” said nadezhda, 69, who was standing at the church’s entrance with a large bouquet of roses.
a former volunteer at navalny’s anti-corruption foundation, nadezhda remembers how navalny’s blog first sparked her interest in politics over a decade ago.
“for me personally, he was the hope for a different life in this country,” she said with tears in her eyes. “we became orphans [when he died].”
with navalny’s team and thousands of his supporters in exile due to a sweeping political crackdown, holding a funeral for president vladimir putin’s adversary was always going to be fraught with risk.
following his death on feb. 16, hundreds of mourners across the country were detained while laying flowers at makeshift memorials.
ahead of friday’s funeral, kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov warned that any unauthorized demonstration in navalny’s support would be considered a violation of the law and that participants would be held accountable.
the mood in the kremlin has been one of anxiety in recent weeks despite putin’s near-guaranteed re-election this month, two high-ranking sources in the russian government who spoke on condition of anonymity told the moscow times.
following navalny’s death, the kremlin held a series of meetings with senior fsb and interior ministry generals to plan how to prevent the funeral from capturing the public’s attention, the two sources said.
“the kremlin does not want a picture similar to the rally at [soviet dissident andrei] sakharov's funeral. therefore, the special services are working according to their plan,” a russian official who formerly worked for a security agency said.
state media was also ordered to ignore the funeral, a source close to the kremlin and the manager of a major russian media outlet said.
starting early in the morning, the area surrounding the church was under heavy surveillance by law enforcement. several police vans were parked next to the church as riot police cordoned off the church’s entrance.
moscow times reporters in the area reported widespread disruptions with cellular and mobile internet service which appeared to be linked to special antennas installed thursday. masked agents in civilian clothes were seen monitoring the crowd.
“i'm afraid, of course, but despite the fear, a man died in prison and we are here,” said maxim, a 37-year-old doctor.
“it’s the least we can do,” he continued.
maxim said he used to believe navalny was a puppet manipulated by the russian authorities. but navalny’s 2021 return to russia after recovering from a near-fatal poisoning — despite the certainty of being jailed — changed his mind.
“that was the best demonstration that this person was actually doing something right and important,” he said.
inside the church of the icon of the mother of god soothe my sorrows, a small crowd of mourners surrounded navalny’s casket. a choir sang as the priest performed the traditional orthodox memorial service.
lyudmila, navalny’s mother, sat near the casket, holding a candle and staring at her son.
among the mourners was a young woman holding a portrait of navalny in a gold frame and a book titled “the saint vs. the reich,” the story of a german orthodox student who resisted the nazis.
a few masked men, likely law enforcement agents in civilian clothes, observed the scene.
navalny, 47, died on feb. 16 in the “polar wolf” penal colony in the arctic where he was serving a 19-year sentence on extremism charges that were widely deemed politically motivated.
his close associates and wife yulia navalnaya have publicly accused the kremlin of being behind the politician's murder.
foreign diplomats, including the french, german and u.s. ambassadors, attended navalny’s funeral. anti-war presidential hopeful boris nadezhdin and former yekaterinburg opposition mayor yevgeny roizman were also present.
“people like him are born once in a hundred years,” says alexander, 69, a russian literature teacher, of navalny. “with such a strong soul, they are sent by god.”
when the black hearse with navalny’s body finally arrived at the church at around 2 p.m., the crowd started clapping and chanting navalny’s name.
“navalny is alive!” someone shouted.
the police then started allowing people into the church in small groups through metal detectors. a masked officer at the entrance filmed people as they entered.
outside the church, people chanted slogans like “lyosha, we are with you,” "freedom for political prisoners," "russia will be free," and "russia without putin."
as the ceremony ended, the casket was immediately covered and carried away despite people’s protests.
“let us say goodbye!” they shouted.
“i’ve never seen something like this,” one of the mourners said. “they killed a man and don’t even let people say goodbye — that’s real satanism,” he said, referring to the russian authorities.
“they even violate god’s laws,” a woman next to him said.
navalny’s allies accused the kremlin of thwarting their plans to hold a separate civic ceremony in a larger venue that could have accommodated more people.
the funeral was initially planned for thursday, but navalny ally ivan zhdanov claimed that every funeral home in moscow had refused because of putin’s address to the russian parliament that day.
navalny’s spokeswoman kira yarmysh said the russian capital’s funeral services received threats from unknown individuals not to transport navalny’s body to the church.
as the ceremony ended and navalny’s body was carried from the church, thousands of people continued to chant navalny’s name and “we won’t forgive!”
mourners outside the church tossed flowers at the hearse carrying navalny's coffin as it departed for the cemetery.
“thank you,” a voice in the crowd shouted.
as navalny’s mother paid her last farewell to her son before his burial, the funeral orchestra played frank sinatra’s “my way.”
it was followed by the final theme from “terminator 2” — which navalny considered “the best film in the world,” according to yarmysh.
“after the death of alexei navalny, i lost hope [for a better future] for some time. but as navalny said, we should not give up,” one muscovite said.
“this should be the motto we must live with in modern russia — hope never dies.”
###
afghanistan-187640: 
at least nine people have died within a day in some provinces of the country due to snowfall and cold weather.
these individuals lost their lives in the provinces of helmand, kandahar, herat, sar-e-pul, badakhshan, and jawzjan, and two others were injured.
janan saiq, the spokesperson for the ministry of state for disaster management, stated that three residential houses were also destroyed in these rains, and dozens of livestock were lost.
"due to cold weather and rainfall in kandahar, helmand, badghis, sar-e-pul, badakhshan, and jawzjan, nine people have died, and two have been injured," said janan saiq, the spokesperson for the ministry of state for disaster management.
the salang pass, the haji gak pass in bamyan, the kabul-ghor and kabul-herat highways, the sabzak dam in badghis, and several district routes in some provinces of the country have been closed to traffic due to rainfall.
in addition, most of the country's highways have been blocked to traffic due to heavy snowfall, and the operation of flights at three airports in the country has been temporarily suspended.
"the salangs have been closed since 11 o'clock last night due to snowfall and storm," said mohammad ashraf haqshenas, the spokesperson for the ministry of public works.
"about 50 to 60 meters of snow has fallen, which has caused problems for livestock owners. if it continues in the coming days, it will harm the livestock owners," said shukrullah, a resident of sar-e-pul.
"faizabad and qala-e-naw airports have been temporarily canceled," imamuddin ahmadi, the spokesperson for the ministry of transport and civil aviation stated.
citizens of the country have expressed concern about the closure of highways and transit routes and have asked officials to seriously work on reopening the roads and routes.
"the closure of the salang roads, which are supply routes, harms the entire nation because salang is a transit route for the city of kabul," said khpalwak, a resident of kabul.
based on information from the meteorology department of the ministry of transport and civil aviation, most provinces of the country will witness heavy snowfall, heavy rain, accompanied by flooding and storms in the next two days.
###
trump-wins-michigan-missouri-republican-caucuses-in-dominant-show-of-force: 
grand rapids, michigan - former united states president donald trump on march 2 easily won the republican caucuses in michigan, where his party has been riven by infighting that some republicans fear could hurt his campaign in the key battleground state as he gears up for the election in november.
trump also won the missouri and idaho republican caucus on march 2, according to edison research.
in all three states, trump trounced mrs nikki haley, his last remaining rival for the republican presidential nomination, moving him closer to becoming his party’s white house standard-bearer and a likely general election rematch with president joe biden, a democrat.
in michigan, trump beat mrs haley in all 13 districts taking part in the nominating caucuses, according to the state republican party.
overall, trump won with nearly 98 per cent support: 1,575 votes to just 36 votes for mrs haley.
the michigan republican party’s chair pete hoekstra called it “an overwhelming, dominating victory”.
more than 1,600 party insiders participated in the presidential caucus in the western michigan city of grand rapids, where they were choosing delegates for trump or former united nations ambassador haley for the party’s national nominating convention in july.
mrs haley is fast running out of time to alter the course of the republican nominating race. next up is super tuesday on march 5, the biggest day in the primaries, when 15 states and one territory will vote.
with victories in iowa, new hampshire, nevada, the us virgin islands, south carolina, and now michigan, missouri and idaho under his belt, trump is far and away the front runner in the race, with mrs haley hanging on, thanks to support from donors keen on an alternative to the former president.
for this election cycle, michigan republicans devised a hybrid nominating system, split between a primary and a caucus.
trump won the primary convincingly on feb 27, securing 12 of 16 delegates up for grabs. he took all of michigan’s remaining 39 delegates at stake on march 2.
at one of the 13 caucus meetings, the participants – knowing trump would win easily – decided to save time by simply asking anyone who backed mrs haley to stand up. in a room of 185 voting delegates, 25-year-old carter houtman was the only person who rose to his feet.
“it was a little lonely,” he told reuters in an interview afterwards.
mr houtman said he would likely vote for trump in november’s general election if he is the nominee, but felt it was important to stand up for his beliefs on march 2.
“i didn’t like the way that trump handled himself after the last election,” mr houtman said.
mr dennis milosch, 87, a trump supporter, said the former president’s dominating win on march 2 underscored how the party has been transformed from one aligned with big business to one focused on the working class.
“wherever he goes, whatever he does, he pays attention to, responds to, the average person,” mr milosch said.
the contest in michigan on march 2 had held the potential for confusion. internal turmoil has been percolating in the party for months, pitting backers of michigan’s former republican party chair, ms kristina karamo, against a faction of party members who voted to oust her on jan 6, and installed mr hoekstra as chair.
mr hoekstra, whom trump backed as chair, was overseeing the convention in grand rapids. ms karamo had been planning to chair a duelling convention in detroit on march 2, but that was cancelled after a michigan court this week affirmed her ouster and an appeals court denied her request to stay the ruling.
pro-karamo party chairs for at least two districts held caucus meetings in separate locations from grand rapids in protest. however, the results from those are unlikely to be accepted by the republican national committee, which in february formally recognised mr hoekstra as state party chair.
mr hoekstra was the us ambassador to the netherlands during trump’s presidency. speaking to reuters on the sidelines of the caucus meetings, he said he was confident the michigan republican party would unite around the objectives of winning the white house and a us senate seat up for grabs, and retaking the state house of representatives.
“there is not a philosophical divide nor an issue divide,” mr hoekstra said. “this is about getting the party ready to win in november... the focus is on beating joe biden.”
trump’s victories in missouri and idaho netted him 54 and 32 delegates, respectively. reuters
###
28891: 
oleksandr kamyshin, the minister of strategic industries, stated in an interview with the independent media outlet that amidst a brutal artillery war with russia, ukraine requires an amount of ammunition that “no single country can deliver.”
he said that even the united states couldn’t deliver the needed ammunition.
as the war entered its third year, ukraine ramped up cost-effective methods to bolster its defenses and significantly increased domestic production, with a threefold surge in 2023 and plans for a sixfold boost this year.
ukraine’s defense minister, rustem umerov, disclosed over the weekend that half of the pledged military aid from western allies is arriving late, “costing lives and territory.”
ukraine has received only a third of the one million artillery shells the european union had committed to delivering by march of last year.
president volodymyr zelensky recently acknowledged that daily, russian forces unleash an average of seven times more munitions on ukrainian troops than they can retaliate with. recent reports suggest that ukraine has been forced to limit its forces to firing just 2,000 artillery rounds per day.
“capable of making more, but don’t have the funding for it.”
“our defense industry capabilities are several times larger than the funding available to support it, so right now, we have to cherry-pick,” kamyshin told the independent. “we are capable of making more, but we don’t have the funding for it."
hur carried out strike on largest oil refinery in russia’s kaluga region
he revealed that ukraine prioritizes ammunition, then drones, and then air defense with the available funds, adding, “the rest suffers.”
kamyshin added that it could be something that the united states and other partners could cover, mentioning that the ukrainian authorities are asking the uk and the us for funding.
the minister acknowledged that regardless of ukraine's domestic production, it will continue to depend on external supply due to the intensity of the battlefield.
however, advancing new technologies, such as fpv drones and long-range drones striking deep into russian territory, significantly contribute to this effort and could potentially lead to achieving air superiority “for the first time.”
in terms of support, he emphasized the importance of financing, stating, “it is in the interest of our partners like the us and the uk to fund our industry – and let us produce more to win the war.”
ukraine is becoming a global pioneer in unmanned systems
kamyshin disclosed that ukraine is positioning itself as a global leader in drone technology, with unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs) emerging as a crucial element in ukraine's modern battlefields.
the significance of drones is so pronounced that zelensky declared the establishment of a distinct military branch, the unmanned systems force, focused on uavs and their technologies, the independence highlighted.
“domestic production is crucial,” kamyshin reported.
he stated that ukraine can produce over one million first-person-view (fpv) drones this year, along with thousands of drones capable of flying over 1,000 km, reaching as far as refineries in russia, stressing, “this is a game-changer.”
“our defense tech is really cool, and together with the newly formed force of unmanned drone systems, it will deliver results,” kamyshin said.
the minister said that ukraine is on track to become a global pioneer in unmanned systems: “we have technology we can share: our naval and flying drones are already better and cheaper than any other country.”
additionally, kamyshin told the independent that those products could be available for partners to strengthen joint defense capabilities.
he said that ukraine possesses rapid capabilities in developing these new technologies, actively testing prototypes on the battlefield in real time.
kamyshin had previously addressed the capabilities of the ukrainian defense complex on dec. 27, 2022, saying that they were about twice as large as the available funding.
“therefore, together with the team of the ministry of defense, the ministry of finance, the prime minister, and the president, we are working on finding additional funding for this sector,” he said.
kamyshin also said that weapon production in ukraine began only in recent years as a response to russia's full-scale invasion in 2022, focusing on artillery shells, drones, armored personnel carriers, and other military equipment."
currently, the defense industry employs 300,000 workers and comprises 500 enterprises, with 400 privately owned.
you can also highlight the text and press ctrl + enter
comments ( 1)
ukraine has $40 billion in reserves in international banks. it is flush with 🤑. there is no funding problem. why is zelensky not buying ammunition? this ammunition shortage is a scam.
@miranda, ouch. that is getting scary low.
you are absolutely right that its time to for ukraine's allies to ramp up investments and weapons supply to ukraine. this is there existential fight too as a russian win in ukraine would only leave that despot more assets to use against democracies.
for frontline battles the artillery & shorter range ammunition deficit is causing immediate loss of offensive momentum and risking precious ukraine soldier lives.
what would be great is if germany and the usa will follow the uk and france's lead and give the ukrainian's the requested longer range missiles. the fight needs to be taken deep inside russia. its' in keeping with international war rules that the victim nation is allowed to attack the aggressor nation within its borders.
hopefully the f16s will also be useful for this. we need to send something that will help putin with his itchy colon and it perches upon his moscow bunker toilet. it's just not right to leave a tormented man in such torment. i think he'd appreciate at this point, being on the receiving end of some long range bunker buster missiles.
###
missouri-man-facing-2-counts-of-1st-degree-in-murder-of-police-officer-court-employee-kansas-city-eviction-notice-larry-acree-homicide-investigation-shot-killed-gunman: 
a kansas city-area man whose home was sold as he struggled to pay delinquent taxes killed a court employee who tried to serve an eviction notice and a police officer who responded, authorities said friday in announcing charges.
larry acree, of independence, missouri, is charged with two counts of first-degree murder, one count of first-degree assault in the wounding of another officer who responded, and three counts of armed criminal action, according to court documents.
the shooting occurred when court employee drexel mack tried to serve an eviction notice.
he was shot, and then officers responding to the scene were shot at, one struck fatally and two others injured before acree was taken into custody.
ambush is a strong word but it may be one that’s fitting here,” jackson county prosecuting attorney jean peters baker said at a news conference.
evictions have turned deadly in the past. in august 2022, an arizona constable who got the job when her predecessor quit over frustration about serving eviction notices was shot and killed while carrying out that same duty. the gunman, his neighbor and the manager of his apartment complex also died, authorities said.
that same month, an oklahoma county sheriff’s office deputy was shot and killed and a second deputy wounded while the two were serving eviction papers at a home on the southwest side of oklahoma city, authorities said.
in missouri, jackson county presiding judge jalilah otto said that because mack was an employee of the court, the case will be moved to another county chosen by the missouri supreme court. mack, who was in his early 40s, had worked for jackson county for over a decade.
bond in the case is set at $2 million. baker said acree, who sustained minor injuries, remains hospitalized and will be moved to the jail as soon as he is able.
no attorney is listed for acree in online court records. acree’s brother, bill acree jr., said he didn’t know of the charges or the shooting when reached by the associated press. he said he hasn’t seen larry acree for 17 years, and they haven’t been close for a long time.
on feb. 23, a “notice to vacate” sign was posted at the property, according to the probable cause affidavit. it stemmed from court actions that began one year earlier. acree “didn't have any right to be there," baker said.
on thursday, mack and another process server arrived at the address to physically evict acree. a padlock was removed from the gated drive, and the two process servers approached the front of the home, where they knocked and announced their presence.
no one answered, so the property maintenance contractor drilled out the lock on the front door, the statement said. they then entered the home and were fired upon. mack was struck and fell to the floor just inside the front door, court records said.
the other process server ran and sought help, court records said. independence police then rushed to the home, where three officers entered and tried to retrieve mack. they then came under additional gunfire, court records said.
officer cody allen, a 35-year-old father of two young children, was shot in the head, and a second officer was shot in the torso, court records said.
officers then returned fire, and the suspect was taken into custody. the wounded were taken to nearby centerpoint medical hospital, where mack and allen were pronounced dead.
the officer struck in the torso underwent surgery and is expected to survive. that officer also sustained additional injuries to the arms and face.
police chief adam dustman said previously that a third officer also “took gunshot rounds” and had minor injuries. no charges were immediately filed stemming from that officer's injuries.
baker said more charges were coming but that they just weren't prepared yet. she declined to release details on the type of firearm or firearms used.
a memorial of flowers and flags was growing friday at the independence police department.
dustman said allen took a break from policing to work in the private sector but missed it so much that he rejoined the department about two years ago. the grandview police department, where allen also once worked, described his death as “a huge loss.”
meanwhile, otto described mack, a father who was engaged to be married, as “beloved by many.”
the home where the eviction notice was being served had been sold recently and had delinquent taxes dating to at least 2019, records show.
jackson county property records show acree bought the 9-acre property in 2005 and then built the three-bedroom, 2,419-square-foot home.
but he had a history of financial problems, including bankruptcies in 1992 and 2004. and the 69-year-old was ordered to pay a roofing company, with $32,155 due as of aug. 1, according to court records.
records from later that month in the roofing case signaled that a sale was in the works. the sale was completed on aug. 14 for $260,000, and the new owner paid the back taxes.
the person who bought the property didn’t immediately respond to a facebook message from the ap seeking comment.
independence is a suburb of kansas city, with about 122,000 residents.
baker noted that the tragedy followed a recent shooting at the chiefs’ super bowl victory rally in which one woman died and around two dozen others were wounded.
“our region has been weighted with it seems one tragedy after another after another,” she said. “almost every one of those is linked to someone using firearms in a way that they’re not supposed to. i do acknowledge that this community is suffering. it’s a lot for one community to bear.”
###
troopers-investigating-crossing-guard-lebanon-013056983.html: 
troopers investigating after crossing guard in lebanon county assaulted
lebanon county, pa. (whtm) — state police are investigating after a lebanon county crossing guard was assaulted on tuesday.
a news release from state police in jonestown states that troopers got a report wednesday of a physical assault between a crossing guard and a motorist that happened the day before.
there is surveillance video of the assault that happened at about 3:15 p.m. at the intersection of north pine grove street and east main street in fredericksburg borough that troopers are going to review, the release reads.
thanks for signing up!
watch for us in your inbox.
subscribe now
whtm severe weather alerts
the assault is currently under investigation and anyone with information is asked to contact troopers at (717)-865-2194.
for the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to abc27.
###
george-galloway-rochdale-labour-byelection-b2505228.html: 
rishi sunak warns british democracy being targeted by far-right and islamists
prime minister responds to ‘beyond alarming’ rochdale by-election result that saw george galloway win shock return to westminster
rishi sunak has said democracy is under attack from far-right and islamist extremists as he urged the country to unite to beat the “poison”.
in an extraordinary move, the prime minister used a hastily arranged press conference outside no 10 yesterday to announce a new crackdown on extremism and appeal to the public to face down those he said were “trying to tear us apart”.
just hours after george galloway’s victory in the rochdale by-election, he said it was “beyond alarming” voters had backed a candidate who “dismisses the horror of what happened on october 7”, when hamas murdered 1,200 people in israel.
earlier, the board of deputies of british jews condemned mr galloway’s win as a “dark day” for the uk’s jewish community, while labour apologised for not campaigning against him in rochdale.
mr sunak announced ministers would redouble support for the anti-terrorism prevent programme, demand universities stop extremist activity on campus and prevent people entering the uk whose “aim is to undermine its values”.
in remarks likely to be seen as more controversial, mr sunk also urged the public to reject when extremists ”claim that britain is and has been on the wrong side of history”.
he said: “no country is perfect, but i am enormously proud of the good that our country has done.
“and when these groups… tell children that the system is rigged against them or that britain is a racist country… this is not only a lie, but a cynical attempt to crush young dreams, and turn impressionistic minds against their own society.”
home secretary james cleverly has also been instructed that those in the uk on visas who choose to “spew hate” will have their right to be in the country removed.
the labour leader backed mr sunak’s intervention, saying: “the prime minister is right to advocate unity and to condemn the unacceptable and intimidatory behaviour that we have seen recently.”
but conservative peer lord vaizey said “many in the tory party should look to themselves” when it comes to the toxification of public life after accusations it has stoked division on issues from brexit to asylum seekers.
labour also lashed out at the new mp as someone who is “only interested in stoking fear and division”.
the party had dropped its own candidate for making antisemitic remarks, leaving the door open for mr galloway, an alleged antisemite notorious for stoking division and courting controversy.
sir keir starmer said following the result: “galloway only won because labour didn’t stand a candidate. i regret that we had to withdraw a candidate and apologise to voters in rochdale. but i took that decision. it was the right decision.
“and when i say i changed the labour party, i mean it. obviously we will put a first-class candidate, a unifier, before the voters in rochdale at the general election.”
a labour spokesperson added: “rochdale deserved the chance to vote for an mp that would bring communities together and deliver for working people.
“george galloway is only interested in stoking fear and division. as an mp he will be a damaging force in our communities and public life.”
as the implications of mr galloway’s return to parliament became clear:
- the board of deputies of british jews said it was a “dark day” for the uk’s jewish community
- mr sunak said the campaign for the rochdale by-election was “one of the most divisive in recent times”
- senior tory mps called for politicians from all sides of the spectrum to stop inflaming public tensions
- greater manchester mayor andy burnham said labour had “let the people of rochdale down”
- mr galloway said the “zionist apartheid state of israel” has no right to exist
- his deputy, former labour mp chris williamson, refused to condemn the hamas 7 october terror attacks
mr galloway’s workers party of great britain won with just under 40 per cent of the vote, a majority of 5,697 over second-placed david tully, a local businessman and independent candidate.
in his victory speech, mr galloway said: “keir starmer, this is for gaza.” it echoed the message mr galloway sent upon his 2005 win in the bethnal green and bow constituency, when he said: “mr blair, this is for iraq.”
he added: “you have paid, and you will pay, a high price for the role that you have played in enabling, encouraging and covering for the catastrophe presently going on in occupied palestine in the gaza strip.”
a spokesperson for the board of deputies of british jews said: “george galloway is a demagogue and conspiracy theorist who has brought the politics of division and hate to every place he has ever stood for parliament.
“his election is a dark day for the jewish community in this country and for british politics in general.”
meanwhile, a spokesperson for the campaign against antisemitism said: “george galloway is an inflammatory firebrand with an atrocious record of baiting the jewish community.
“his endurance in our public life serves to exploit extremist sentiment and divide communities.”
asked if mr galloway’s election win would inflame tensions, the prime minister said: “it was very concerning to see the reports of intimidation through the by-election, and by all accounts one of the most divisive campaigns that we’ve seen in recent times."
and in a sign of the controversy to come after mr galloway’s return, his deputy yesterday morning refused to condemn the 7 october hamas terror attacks on israel.
former labour mp chris williamson, who was suspended from the party for claiming it had “given too much ground” and been “too apologetic” in tackling antisemitism, is now the deputy leader of mr galloway’s workers party of britain.
the jeremy corbyn ally told bbc radio 4’s today programme: “you can’t expect to live in a situation where people have been oppressed for 75 years and not expect a reaction.”
he added: “in international law, oppressed peoples have an absolute right to armed resistance,” before going on to claim that the majority of those innocent people killed on 7 october were killed by israeli forces.
labour’s deputy national campaign coordinator ellie reeves said she was “utterly appalled by mr williamson’s failure to condemn hamas attacks on the seventh of october, and likewise his failure to distance his party from the endorsement of [former president of the far-right british national party] nick griffin”.
and, in comments likely to further inflame tensions amid israel’s war on gaza, mr galloway went on to tell sky news that the “zionist apartheid state of israel” has no right to exist.
top tories came together to warn tensions are already running high and stress the importance of taking the heat out of political debate.
senior conservative mp david davis, who will introduce mr galloway alongside jeremy corbyn in the house of commons on monday, said “the temperature of politics has got very high”.
and mr davis said mr galloway serves as “a sharp reminder” that “if we want to make progress as a democracy you have to be able to debate in civilised terms and accept that other people have real differences from you”.
the former cabinet minister told the independent: “the general temperature of politics has got very high… even intra-party as well as between parties.
“for democracy to operate properly we have to be able to reach a decision and ideally build a consensus or very solid majority around that, and that has not been happening for years.”
and former justice secretary sir robert buckland said mr galloway’s election should was “all about divisiveness”, adding that it should serve as “a general call to arms” to take the heat out of political debate.
speaking after visiting a sixth form college, sir robert told the independent that “we owe an example to the next generation to do our politics better”.
“that does not mean no disagreement or argument, of course it means lively debate, but disagreeing agreeably as we have done in britain for generations.”
he added: “the more we spread the language of divisiveness and otherness and hate, the more you’ll see politicians like jo cox losing their lives or david amess losing their lives, and the darker and sadder a place our political life will be…
“and that’s why last night was a profoundly depressing result, frankly.”
and sir robert described mr galloway as a “demagogue” who “comes and goes and leaves damage in his wake”.
and he said all sides of the political spectrum have been guilty of furthering public division and that politics should be about “solutions”, not trying to “inflame” debate.
and greater manchester mayor andy burnham said labour had “let the people of rochdale down because it didn’t give them a good enough choice”.
and, in a warning to mr galloway, mr burnham warned that he will “stand up to anybody who seeks to bring division or hate to our city region”.
left-wing pressure group momentum described labour’s rochdale by-election results as “self-inflicted”. a spokesperson for the group said: “this was a needless and self-inflicted loss for labour.
“first, (labour leader sir keir) starmer’s utterly factional selection processes resulted in a candidate who was clearly unfit for office. then the labour leadership tried to defend him as one of their own.
“finally, keir starmer’s failure to stand with gaza in its hour of need left the door open for george galloway.
“to avoid any more damaging repeats, starmer should end the factional abuse of labour’s selection processes and stand up for an immediate, permanent ceasefire in gaza.”
the rochdale campaign has been mired in controversy and claims of intimidation and divisive tactics.
labour withdrew support for its candidate, azhar ali, after a recording emerged in which he claimed israel was complicit in the terrorist attacks of 7 october, seeing mr galloway become the firm favourite for the seat.
mr ali remained listed as the labour candidate as the party’s decision came too late for ballot papers to be changed.
labour said it “will quickly begin the process to select a new labour candidate for the general election”.
nigel farage’s reform uk also suffered a poor result in the seat, gaining just 6 per cent of the vote, much lower than its national poll rating of around 10 per cent. leader richard tice claimed his candidate, former rochdale mp simon danczuk, had received a death threat during the campaign and said his party’s campaign team had been subject to “daily intimidation and slurs”.
pollster luke tryl, of more in common, said the results were “terrible” for all the main parties. he pointed to the performance of second-placed mr tully as almost more significant than mr galloway’s win.
“but the circumstances mean it is far more likely the lesson here is one about candidate selection and due diligence than about public opinion more broadly,” he added.
labour’s ellie reeves said the party will not change its position on gaza despite mr galloway warning after the by-election result it will pay “a high price” nationally.
she told sky news: “we’ve set out our position on gaza and that was adopted by the commons just the other week.
“we’ve said there should be an immediate humanitarian ceasefire, that the loss of life has been intolerable, there must be no ground offensive in rafah, aid has to be ramped up into the region, and, importantly, that we need to find a two-state solution.”
join our commenting forum
join thought-provoking conversations, follow other independent readers and see their replies
###
UK-gas-grid-network-underground-tunnel: 
incredible 177,000-mile secret network of underground tunnels could save uk £28billion
exclusive: the uk should repurpose a huge system of subterranean pipes and tunnels to aid its transition to a cleaner, greener future, an expert has said.
ena shares a hydrogen vision for the uk
a hidden network of pipes beneath britain has been described as a rare “national treasure” with exciting possibilities.
the national net zero drive can be helped by repurposing this already-existing infrastructure into a cleaner energy distribution system, a leading industry expert has argued.
sarah williams, director of regulation, asset strategy & hs&e at gas transportation firm wales & west utilities, says britain’s gas grid, which she described as “the equivalent of the uk’s motorways”, should be remodelled so it can be used to transport hydrogen.
and she is urging the uk government to rapidly invest in homegrown hydrogen production to speed up the decarbonisation process.
read more: the new £100m junction that will end chaos on one of britain’s busiest motorways
shedding light on the little-known distribution network of pipes underneath the uk, she told express.co.uk: “across the uk, we've got 285,000 kilometres (177,000 miles) of pipes under the ground. we need to be able to reuse that.”
she added: “there's obviously a school of thought that says we should go to electrification and we should decommission the gas network.
“but there is a cost to decommission the gas network. the national infrastructure commission recently published a report into the future of great britain's gas grid, and they suggested that it would be £28billion cheaper to repurpose the network and use it for hydrogen than to decommission it.
“our vision is we have these pipes today so we should use them. this network is like a national treasure that nobody really even thinks about.
“last year 30% of our electricity was generated from gas, but the interlinkage between that and our power system is poorly understood.”
ms williams said her company was responsible for serving 2.5 million customers across an area containing a population of roughly 7.5 million people in wales and the south west of england.
she said: “we cover big cities like bristol, cardiff, exeter and taunton. and then we go right through into dartmoor, exmoor, the brecon beacons, and everything in between, including cornwall.”
ms williams added: “it's really important to note that our domestic customers are attached to exactly the same pipes as the businesses and industrial consumers.
“people imagine that industry and businesses and have their own gas pipes and then homes are connected to a separate network, but they're not. they're interconnected.”
the energy expert is now calling on the uk to exploit a newfound opportunity to harness its own homegrown hydrogen supply.
she said: “the homegrown hydrogen opportunity is really what you want to see in the uk.
“and you would think that there is a great opportunity for us to do that.
“but a bit more speed and pace from the government is going to be required to really give that investment signal that the uk is the place to invest in hydrogen for the future.”
ms williams cited the resource’s reliability when asked about the benefits of using gas as an energy source.
she said: “one of the main benefits is reliability: you typically will experience no more than one gas interruption in your whole life, which is very different to an electricity connection where, typically, you may experience an interruption once every year or a couple of years.”
but she went on to admit there were still some challenges associated with repurposing the uk gas grid to be used for hydrogen.
she said: “obviously we would absolutely not put anything into a customer's home that wasn't as safe as what we've got today.
“and the health and safety executive are working alongside us, but equally looking at the viability so we're looking at we've got about 80% of our pipes already plastic, so they are suitable for hydrogen to be put through them.
“so it's about understanding how we get from that production to distribution into the customer's home. i think technically, it's relatively simple.
“i think it's more around the making sure that all of the different parts have end to end right from production to the consumer home already, and the sequencing of that would have been tested through to the trial.”
###
rss-leader-rudresh-murder-accused-brought-from-tanzania-arrested-by-nia-101709394659419.html: 
rss leader rudresh murder accused brought from tanzania; arrested by nia
the accused ghouse nayazi, a pfi cadre, was arrested by nia at mumbai airport on friday after he was brought from dar-e-salaam, tanzania, through deportation
the national investigation agency (nia) has arrested a popular front of india (pfi) cadre, ghouse nayazi, who was involved in the murder of rashtriya swayamsevak sangh (rss) leader r rudresh in october 2016 and had fled the country.
he was arrested at mumbai airport on friday after he was brought from dar-e-salaam, tanzania, through deportation.
rudresh, a prominent rss leader of shivajinagar area of bengaluru, was hacked to death by four members of the now-banned popular front of india (pfi) in karnataka on october 16, 2016.
a nia spokesperson said in a statement on saturday that the murder was part of a larger conspiracy hatched by nayazi, president of the social democratic party of india (sdpi), hebbal assembly constituency, and one asim sheriff.
“the duo had persuaded the other four accused to kill rudresh with an intention to strike terror among the members of the rss and the society. the killers were made to believe that the fight against the rss was a holy war,” the spokesperson said.
the ministry of home affairs (mha) banned the pfi and its eight affiliates — rehab india foundation (rif), campus front of india (cfi), all india imams council (aiic), national confederation of human rights organisation (nchro), national women’s front, junior front, empower india foundation and rehab foundation, kerala —on september 27, 2022. the ban came days after a crackdown by nia and the enforcement directorate (ed) on senior leaders and members of the pfi, in which at least 108 people were arrested.
get current updates on india news, pm narendra modi in kerala live , electoral bonds data live , lok sabha election 2024 date along with latest news and top headlines from india and around the world.
###
dem-npl-primary-underway-in-march: 
dem-npl primary underway in march
the north dakota democratic-npl party has scheduled a statewide mail-in ballot presidential primary, with ballots due saturday, march 30.
in-person voting for reservation residents will be held on saturday, march 23, from 10 a.m.-4 p.m. at the “log house,” eagle heart community cultural center in dunseith and on sunday, march 24, from 10 a.m.-4 p.m. at spirit lake casino & resort in st. michael.
any qualified north dakota voter or any person who will have met all the qualifications of a voter at the next general election, and who has completed a form declaring they wish to participate as a democrat, is qualified to vote in the democratic-npl presidential primary. contact party headquarters for information on how to obtain a ballot.
the ballot includes president joe biden, web develop eban cambridge, business owner stephen lyons, entrepreneur and philanthropist jason palmer, educator armando “mando” perez-serrato, minnesota congressman dean phillips, political commentator and media host cenk uygur and author and political activist marianne williamson.
###
india-news-3-members-of-banned-kcp-arrested-in-manipur-5792363.html: 
imphal, mar 1 (pti) the manipur police have arrested three members of the banned kcp (n) from imphal west district and recovered arms and ammunition from their possession, an official statement said on friday.
five mobile handsets and rs 4 lakh in cash were also seized from their possession, it said.
also read | prasanta kumar jagadev joins bjp: expelled bjd leader who rammed suv into bjp crowd in odisha jumps ship, says 'naveen patnaik lacks power to protect us'.
the arms and ammunition recovered from them are suspected to have been looted from security forces earlier, a police officer said.
the arrested members of the proscribed kangleipak communist party (nongdrenkhomba) were identified as l alin, herish maibam and bela oinam, the statement issued from the police control room said, adding that a case was registered for further investigation.
also read | uttar pradesh board exam paper ‘leaked’: class 12 mathematics, biology question papers allegedly shared on whatsapp an hour after examinations began.
manipur has remained gripped by recurring bouts of violence since ethnic clashes between two communities first erupted in may last year. altogether 219 people have been killed since then.
the clashes have occurred over a number of grievances that both sides have against the other, however, the flashpoint of the crisis has been a move to give meiteis scheduled tribe status, which has since been rolled back and an attempt to turf out tribals living in protected forest areas.
meiteis account for about 53 per cent of manipur's population and live mostly in the imphal valley, while tribals, which include nagas and kukis, constitute 40 per cent and reside mainly in the hill districts.
(this is an unedited and auto-generated story from syndicated news feed, latestly staff may not have modified or edited the content body)
###
article67903063.ece: 
congress working committee (cwc) member ramesh chennithala has demanded the formation of a special investigation team (sit), led by an officer in the rank of inspector general, to probe the alleged murder of a student on the kerala veterinary and animal sciences university campus at pookode in wayanad.
addressing the media here on friday, he alleged that an attempt was being made by communist party of india (marxist) [cpi(m)] leaders to wipe out the case. he said the cpi(m) leaders, led by former mla c.k. saseendran, had threatened the dysp, who was investigating the case, and attempted to protect the suspects in police custody.
“siddharth was pressured to join the students federation of india (sfi), but he was not interested in joining any political outfit. this was the reason he was murdered,” mr. chennithala said, adding that his family suspected that his body was hung in the room after strangling him to death.
mr. chennithala also accused the cpi(m) of training goons to reign campuses across state under the sfi banner.he alleged that the station house officer of pookode police station was trying to sabotage the case by depicting it as a suicide, and the teachers in the university with left allegiance had supported the heinous act. “it was wrong on the part of minister chinchurani to support the dean of the college who obviously had cpi ties,” mr. chennithala said. he would visit the college on saturday at 9 a.m. and would take part in the congress march at pookode.
mr. chennithala also condemned the kerala public service commission (kpsc) for the situation that led to the cancellation of rank list for sub inspector selection. “the explanation that it was a clerical error is not satisfactory. those behind this incident need to be brought to justice,” he said, adding that the incident had diminished the credibility of the kpsc.
###
why-ai-will-drive-major-pc-market-growth-next-year: 
editor’s note: “why ai will drive major pc market growth in 2024” was previously published in december 2023. it has since been updated to include the most relevant information available.
surprise, surprise! dell (dell) stock has enjoyed quite a rally recently. it’s up almost 45% over the past month alone.
yes, that dell – the old-school pc maker. in the 1990s, it was the hottest stock on wall street. but after the pc market hit a brick wall in the 2010s, the stock has gone absolutely nowhere…
until now.
that dell is now up more than 60% this year and nearly 230% over the past 12 months.
and it’s all thanks to artificial intelligence.
in short, ai is creating a renaissance in the pc market. and stocks like dell could party like it’s the 1990s all over again.
back in the 1990s and early 2000s, the pc market grew like wildfire as everyone raced to buy computers and get connected to the internet. but in the 2010s, the market became saturated. there were no new pc buyers.
so – the market stopped growing. global pc sales have been flat since about 2015. as a result, pc stocks have been flat, too. but we could be looking at the start of a massive pc upgrade “supercycle” that could make pc stocks the hottest on wall street once again.
an ai-driven pc boom?
both dell and hp (hpq) plan to launch the first generation of what they’re calling “ai pcs” – pcs with artificial intelligence built into them.
they’ll come with the standard central processing unit (cpus) and graphics processing unit (gpus) that all advanced computers are outfitted with today. but they’ll also have neural processing units (npus), which allow for ai to be run locally on the computers themselves.
and we’re confident that these next-gen pcs will unlock the next wave of ai productivity benefits.
today, the only way to access ai is through the cloud. users go to a website or mobile application, and a third-party cloud service provider delivers the ai service. this is called the ai-as-a-service (aiaas) model.
typically, in this model, the cloud service provider gains access to users’ data and charges a fee for them to use that service regularly. not to mention, it also requires the internet to use it.
but with ai pcs, there won’t be any data-sharing or recurring fees. users will have artificial intelligence running locally and privately on their own computer. and they’ll be able to use it whenever, wherever – even without an internet connection.
imagine being on your computer, pulling up microsoft office or excel, and boom; there’s an ai assistant right there to help you craft whatever document or spreadsheet you’re working on.
you don’t need to open a separate window for chatgpt or download and pay for copilot. you just tap into the ai that is already built into your computer.
that is the widely accessible future that ai pcs will usher in.
and we think this future has huge economic potential.
the pc market could turn red-hot in a flash
obviously, on the consumer side of things, it’s easy to see how these ai pcs become ubiquitous. one person buys one. then everyone around them realizes how cool it is to have artificial intelligence built into your own computer. and suddenly, we see a major snowball effect, where everyone wants and gets their own ai pc.
but the bigger potential here lies on the enterprise side of things – because that’s where the benefits of these next-gen pcs will really shine.
it’s costly for a company to buy every employee a license to chatgpt or copilot. it’s also scary to openly share all your data with cloud ai platforms. but at the same time, it’s now absolutely necessary for companies to get the power of artificial intelligence into their employees’ hands.
and the only way to deploy artificial intelligence while minimizing cost and protecting data is to use ai pcs.
therefore, we believe that when dell and hp launch their ai pcs in 2024 and ‘25, companies across america will go on an ai pc shopping spree. it’s very likely that your next company laptop will be an ai pc.
what does that mean for the sleepy pc market?
explosive growth for the first time in 20 years.
the final word
according to research firm canalys, the global pc market is set to grow by 8% in 2024 after contracting in both 2022 and ‘23. then it’s expected to rise another ~20% in 2025.
and this coming ai pc supercycle is creating some compelling opportunities in pc stocks.
just consider; hpq trades at just 8x next year’s earnings.
that’s a dirt-cheap multiple. and it only make sense if hp isn’t going to grow over the next few years. but in fact, it could grow by more than 10% over the next two years.
therefore, hpq offers an underrated and undervalued way to play the ai boom.
i wouldn’t be surprised if ai pc stocks go parabolic next year and end up being some of the market’s biggest winners.
but in fact, these stocks aren’t my favorite way to play the ai trend in 2024.
rather, i’ve got my sights set on a different corner of the market. and it’s one that some of the world’s most powerful people and companies are pouring money into right now. think nvidia (nvda), microsoft (msft), tesla (tsla), amazon (amzn), elon musk and jeff bezos.
we believe we’re seeing the ai boom’s next evolution unfold. and that means it’s time to grab your slice of the pie.
find out how to do just that right now with a few of our favorite stock picks.
on the date of publication, luke lango did not have (either directly or indirectly) any positions in the securities mentioned in this article.
p.s. you can stay up to speed with luke’s latest market analysis by reading our daily notes! check out the latest issue on your innovation investor or early stage investor subscriber site.
###
dior-chiffre-rouge-tag-aviation-g650er: 
in our weekly series, we bring you the latest in luxury news from around the world. this week’s highlights: dior’s chiffre rouge collection resurfaces with eight new couture timepieces, tag aviation expands its asian presence with the latest g650er fleet in singapore, and more.
dior’s chiffre rouge resurfaces with eight new couture timepieces
dior’s chiffre rouge collection is experiencing a revival, reintroducing itself with eight new models that incorporate some of the house’s most classic codes. these details are carefully selected for their couture aesthetic, marking a renaissance two decades after its initial launch. the timepiece features an automatic mechanism visible through transparent backs, an architectural asymmetry with a subtly enlarged and tapered side in the case, a red crown with a set of matching hands, and interchangeable straps. monsieur dior’s favourite number, eight, is also highlighted in the date display, acting as a lucky charm that reappears every month. available in several finishes, it comes in two sizes—38mm and 41mm. the chiffre rouge is now available at dior pavilion kuala lumpur.
tag aviation expands its asian presence with the latest g650er fleet in singapore
tag aviation recently announced the latest addition to its extensive fleet: the new g650er aircraft in singapore, further strengthening its presence in the asian market. with its long-range capabilities, comfort and performance, the g650er easily connects passengers from singapore to global destinations. tag also has three more g650er aircraft in both singapore and malaysia available for charter, offering travellers a broad spectrum of options for their private travel needs in the region.
experience two exclusive treatments at spa l’apogée by la prairie
set in the relaxing escape of the french alps, enjoy opulent la prairie treatments offered at the spa l’apogée in the luxurious l’apogée courchevel ski resort. in celebration of the resort’s 10th birthday, the spa is offering two exclusive treatments. the signature restore and glow treatment targets back tension and skin conditioning. it also comes with a gua sha facial massage and a guided sophrology session that brings deep relaxation and helps with refocusing and alignment. meanwhile, the sublime healing touch is a treatment that envelops the body and mind in a gentle bubble. several techniques are incorporated to awaken the five senses, including your taste buds, enhanced by executive chef jean-luc lefrançois’ gourmet touch.
berluti’s spring/summer 2024 collection mixes fabric and leathers
berluti’s spring/summer 2024 collection captures the inherent contrasts of modern life, presenting two chapters and four releases transitioning from spring to summer. rooted in the maison’s genetic code, this collection places a spotlight on the art of mixing by blending fabrics and leathers within the same pieces to create versatile combinations. this includes a petrol blue charbonnier jacket with suede and tech wool; a sand-coloured military jacket with suede and cotton panels; a grey water-resistant car coat with leather accents; navy unlined suede windbreakers, and an army green unstructured jacket in cotton-silk. other signatures also included in this collection are the b volute loafer, 48-hour bag, demesure flex, toujours messengers, and more.
welcoming food lovers at the melbourne food and wine festival
from 15 to 24 march, indulge in australia’s vibrant food and drink culture at the 2024 melbourne food and wine festival. the 10-day programme celebrates the diversity of local produce and culinary talent, featuring more than 300 events for visitors to enjoy. the festival will kick off with the return of fan favourites—the world’s longest lunch on 15 march and the world’s longest brunch on 16 march; both will be held at kings domain for the first time.
melbourne food and wine festival
roberto cavalli’s resort 2024 collection showcases fausto puglisi’s vision on hippie style
without compromising on the brand’s dna, roberto cavalli’s creative director fausto puglisi released the resort 2024 collection with body-shaping co-ords, bell-bottom pants, flowy dresses, and even textured skirt suits. hippie style but filtered with a contemporary finish, the collection is built with delicate cotton and lace. also spotted at the trunk show at the starhill were knitted cotton and chenille styles with a fishnet-like look, while the brand’s signature artisanal craftsmanship stole the spotlight on intricate leather intarsia outerwear pieces and laced-up pants infused with a ’70s rock ‘n’ roll styling.
also featured in the collection are leopard chiné patterns, as well as wool and linen suits in a black and white palette. there’s also the boxy double-breasted pants and wide-legged pants. languid silk shirts and pyjama-like pants are printed with the collection’s signature lemon print. napa, suede, and snakeskin-printed leather are found on bombers and flared pants, while a hawaiian landscape print adds the resort vibe to the whole collection. meanwhile roberto cavalli footwear also brings back leather sandals with straps embellished with the rc mirror snake metallic buckle, as well as texan boots with an urban touch to complete the resort 2024 collection.
taylor swift’s eras tour is taking over marina bay sands
marina bay sands is undergoing a transformation into an enchanting wonderland dedicated to all things taylor swift, hosting the eras tour until 13 march 2024. the integrated resort, specifically the shoppes and sands expo & convention centre, will offer a myriad of activities and activations to celebrate swift’s illustrious career. the visual narrative of swift’s journey allows fans to experience her 10 iconic eras through seven installations, with each zone providing a glimpse into her musical evolution. fans can also witness a 14-minute light & water show that synchronises swift’s four chart-topping songs with dancing fountain jets, projections, beaming lasers and lava effects. as night falls, the resort’s facade will convert into a pastel hue display from 7pm to 11pm. furthermore, sands lifestyle members will be able to participate in a second festive draw for a chance to win a pair of vip tickets.
truefitt & hill opens its barbershop in seibu
london’s finest traditional gentlemen’s barber and perfumer has joined forces with the seibu department store at the exchange trx. despite the size of this relatively smaller barbershop, truefitt & hill nevertheless does not compromise on their grooming services, offering four barber stations with full-sized sinks in the space, offering full services such as haircuts, shaves, facial massages, manicures, and pedicures. the barbershop and store also carry a full range of shaving and skincare products—perfect for men who look forward to some me-time while the missus shops. truefitt & hill seibu is located on the second floor, right at the entrance.
###
texas-smokehouse-creek-fire-updates-weekend-forecast-weather-smoke-deadly-panhandle-oklahoma-kansas-new-mexico: 
borger, texas (tnd) — firefighters continue to battle the largest fire on record in texas history for a fourth straight day.
the smokehouse creek fire is the largest blaze in state history. it began monday, and has burned about 1,700 square miles (4,400 square kilometers) in texas and killed two people.
in an update on friday, texas gov. greg abbott expressed gratitude for the first responders continuing to fight to contain the blaze, and shared his remorse for the victims captured by the fire.
“when you look at the damages that have occurred here it’s just gone, completely gone nothing left but ashes on the ground,” abbott explained.
gov. abbott emphasized the "enormous chance" for fire and danger this weekend as weather conditions will favor the spread of the wildfire.
even as snow fell thursday and helped firefighters, crews are working against higher temperatures and winds forecast in the coming days.
on tuesday, gov. abbott issued a disaster declaration for 60 counties in texas, and on wednesday, he directed the texas division of emergency management to increase its readiness level in response to the fires.
authorities have not said what ignited the fires, but strong winds, dry grass and unseasonably warm weather fed them.
two women have been confirmed killed by the fires, but with flames still affecting such a wide area, authorities are still searching for other possible victims.
cindy owen was driving in texas' hemphill county south of canadian on tuesday afternoon when she encountered fire or smoke, said sgt. chris ray of the state's department of public safety. she got out of her truck, and flames overtook her. a passerby found owen and called first responders, who took her to a burn unit in oklahoma. she died thursday morning, ray said.
the other victim, an 83-year-old woman, was identified by family members as joyce blankenship, a former substitute teacher. her grandson, lee quesada, said deputies told his uncle wednesday that they had found blankenship’s remains in her burned home.
conditions favorable for wildfires are expected to extend through the weekend in parts of texas, oklahoma, kansas and new mexico, according to the national weather service.
the largest of several major fires burning in the rural panhandle section of the state has also crossed into oklahoma.
crews will focus on the northern edge of the fire and areas around structures, the forest service said.
president joe biden, who was in texas on thursday to visit the u.s.-mexico border, said he directed federal officials to do “everything possible” to assist fire-affected communities, including sending firefighters and equipment. the federal emergency management agency has guaranteed texas and oklahoma will be reimbursed for their emergency costs, the president said.
“when disasters strike, there’s no red states or blue states where i come from,” biden said. “just communities and families looking for help. so we’re standing with everyone affected by these wildfires and we’re going to continue to help you respond and recover.”
wildfire outbreaks are common in the region at this time of year, according to leighton chachere gibson, a communications specialist at texas a&m forest service.
dry winters are fairly standard in the area, but temperatures were unseasonably high on tuesday — in the 70s rather than the 50s and 60s as is more common, said samuel scoleri, a forecaster at the national weather service amarillo office.
previously, the largest fire in recorded state history was the 2006 east amarillo complex fire, which burned about 1,400 square miles (3,600 square kilometers) and left 13 people dead.
_______
editor's note: the associated press and kvii contributed to this report.
###
108168526.cms: 
the indian government is taking a strong stance against google's recent removal of some indian apps, including popular matrimonial services, from the google play store. it and telecom minister ashwini vaishnaw emphasized that india's thriving startup ecosystem cannot be dictated to by big tech companies.
minister vaishnaw has scheduled a meeting this week with representatives from both google and the affected app developers to find a solution.
he stressed that the government will protect the country's startup ecosystem, which boasts of over 100,000 startups and 100 unicorns built within a decade. "i have already called google...i have already called the app developers who have been delisted, we will be meeting them next week. this cannot be permitted. this kind of delisting cannot be permitted," vaishnaw told media.
"i will be telling google...our entrepreneurial energy...startups, look at the whole startup india programme, 10 years back we had practically nothing and today we have more than 1,00,000 startups, more than 100 unicorns...this is something...the energy of our youth, the energy of our entrepreneurs, energy of our talented people that has to be channelised fully well, it cannot be left to the policies of any big tech," the minister added.apps delisted
the it and telecom minister made the statement following google's decision to delist apps of 10 indian companies, accusing them of avoiding service fees on the play store platform. the delisted apps reportedly include shaadi.com, matrimony.com, bharat matrimony, altbalaji, kuku fm, quack quack and truly madly.
minister of state for it rajeev chandrasekhar too raised concerns about google's dominance potentially hindering competition and harming startups. he said that there is need to investigate if google's actions fall under the category of "abuse of dominance."what is the dispute all about
the underlying dispute centers on google's revised service fee structure, ranging from 11% to 26% on in-app purchases. this change came after india's antitrust body, the cci, directed google to scrap its previous fee system that charged developers between 15% and 30%. google proceeded with app removals after the supreme court declined to provide temporary relief to the app developers challenging google's fees.also read | government to tech companies: take permission before launching ai models in india
###
beyond-creepy-schools-installing-spying-devices-pupils-bathrooms-tackle-issues: 
school sensors debate: security measure or privacy invasion?
01-03-2024 | by robin mitchell
key things to know:
- uk schools are installing sensors in student toilets to combat bullying and vaping, sparking a debate on privacy and safety.
- critics, including big brother watch, argue that such surveillance measures infringe on students' privacy rights and could foster a mistrustful environment.
- the sensors are designed to detect specific keywords and air quality indicators, aiming to alert staff in real-time to incidents within these private spaces.
- the effectiveness and ethical implications of these sensors are under scrutiny, with concerns about potential abuse and the need for less intrusive solutions.
in what can only be described as beyond creepy, some schools in the uk have started to install sensors into student toilets to identify potential bullying and vaping. however, while the use of sensors may originate from good intentions, it opens up a pandora’s box of potential abuse. what challenges do toilet environments present to educators, what are some schools starting to do, and why is the use of sensors in such environments a recipe for disaster?
students and bathrooms – a dangerous mix
anyone who is reading this article will likely have been a student in a typical school, making friends of all age groups, learning about the wonders of the world, and, from time to time, getting up to no good. but while passing notes in class and making fun of the odd teacher for doing something embarrassing is perfectly normal behaviour, there are other behaviours and traits that are somewhat more concerning.
one such behaviour is bullying, which itself can be traumatising for those who fall victim to it. in fact, there are countless cases of student suicides and acts of gross violence which directly arise from bullying, hence the importance of stopping bullying in all its forms.
sadly, trying to catch bullying in the act is often extremely difficult, as those who bully will do so when not under supervision (arising from cowardice). furthermore, bullying isn’t just a physical phenomenon, as verbal bullying can be just as devastating if not more than physical bullying. in many ways, it is far easier to prevent a bully from physically assaulting students than it is to prevent an entire year group from ostracising a single student.
to make matters worse, bullies will often look for areas that are secluded and/or private so that they can reduce the chance of getting caught, which makes bathrooms prime locations. due to the private nature of such areas, installing cameras is out of the question, and having staff situated on-site introduces all kinds of privacy issues and impacts the safety of students.
of course, bullying isn’t the only issue that can occur in such spaces; the rise of vaping has seen large amounts of uptake amongst under-18s due to their easy access, reduced toxicity compared to regular tobacco, and ability to be extremely discrete. while vaping itself is significantly less dangerous compared to regular tobacco, there is concern that it could still be introducing toxins into the body as well as encouraging other behaviours, including potential drug use.
schools in the uk introducing sensors into toilets
in response to the challenges faced by staff with regard to vaping and bullying, some schools across the uk have begun to introduce smart sensors into bathrooms that actively listen to students and detect air quality.
the initiative, as detailed by schools week, has been met with mixed reactions. on one hand, it represents a proactive step towards mitigating issues like vaping and bullying within school premises. these sensors, equipped with the capability to recognise specific keywords and monitor for signs of vaping, aim to alert staff in real-time, thereby enabling swift intervention. however, this technological solution has also raised significant privacy concerns, with critics arguing that it encroaches on students' rights to privacy and could foster an environment of surveillance rather than trust.
in the case of vaping, specialised vape sensors that can detect the by-products of vaping (such as glycerol) are required, as regular smoke alarms cannot detect vaping. but in the case of bullying, such devices are turning to keyword detection via on-device ai.
by looking for key phrases, such as “help me” and “stop it”, it becomes possible for such devices to identify potential cases of bullying and sexual assault as it happens and then inform staff members to enable real-time responses. furthermore, as such devices can be networked, it also becomes possible for messages to be sent to remote devices regardless of where they are, thus allowing staff off-site to be notified.
the debate around these sensors is not just about their effectiveness but also their impact on students' perception of privacy. big brother watch has voiced strong opposition to this approach, labeling it a "gross violation of children's privacy" (big brother watch). the organisation stresses the importance of safeguarding children's rights in educational settings, urging schools to seek less intrusive methods for addressing disciplinary issues. this highlights the complex balance schools must navigate between leveraging technology for safety and maintaining a respectful and trusting educational environment.
while numerous device managers exist, two that have received special attention are halo devices, which can be preprogrammed with keywords, and 3d sense pro sensor (from triton), which comes with ten preprogrammed phrases and space for ten additional phrases. such sensors have already been deployed in around 1,500 schools across the us, and it is believed that around 30 to 40 devices have been used in the uk, with device manufacturers anticipating greater adoption throughout the next few years.
why are such sensors a recipe for disasters?
no one can deny that bullying is a disgusting practice and that students, parents, and teachers should do everything they can to identify and stop it. however, there are some lines that shouldn’t be crossed, and the installation of sensors into private spaces where students are exceptionally vulnerable clearly crosses this line.
while the technology itself may be benign to some degree, the use of such technology in bathrooms is ripe for abuse. for example, it wouldn’t be difficult for anyone, student or staff, to partially dismantle such hardware and integrate other equipment, such as cameras and/or microphones.
for those with more technical capabilities, such sensors could potentially be hacked and adjusted to stream conversations in real time. if such sensors are connected to a network with internet access, then it also becomes possible for hackers anywhere in the world to gain entry and upload firmware that allows for remote control.
to make matters worse, it wouldn’t be entirely difficult for an engineer to fake such a device, adding all kinds of surveillance hardware while providing similar features to other mainstream alternatives. this would leave students extremely vulnerable to predation, which itself could last for years.
overall, the idea of installing sensors in a student bathroom to monitor for bullying is a complete invasion of privacy and something that must be discouraged, if not outlawed.
###
india-protests-thai-envoys-remarks-at-wto-in-abu-dhabi-695790: 
india strongly objects to thai envoy's remarks at wto meet in abu dhabi: reports
story highlights
despite the ongoing discussions, the 13th ministerial conference of the wto concluded on march 1 without significant decisions on crucial issues such as finding a permanent solution to public food stockpiling and curbing fisheries subsidies.
india has taken a firm stance against the remarks made by thailand's ambassador pimchanok vonkorpon pitfield to the world trade organization (wto) in abu dhabi.
the remarks reportedly targeted india's public stockholding program, a critical component of its agricultural policy, aiming to support farmers by ensuring stable prices for essential crops and maintaining food security for its population.
notably, this program has been a subject of discussion and negotiation at the world trade organization (wto) due to concerns about its potential impact on global trade dynamics.
reports citing sources said that pitfield's comments were 'offensive' in nature and criticised india's rice procurement program. pitfield blamed the program and said that the country is exporting 40 percent of procured rice for its public distribution systems (pds) to boost its export market.
the comment sparked tensions following which india lodged a strong protest and the thai ambassador was replaced.
"the thai ambassador has been replaced. she has ridiculed india's public stockholding programme," media reports said citing a source.
also read | indian classical dancer amarnath ghosh shot dead in us, actor friend seeks new delhi's help
“it was the tone used, which was offensive and this remark was followed by members of the cairns grouping applauding the comment. bharat took objection to what was said, and the manner, in which it was said,” a separate report added quoting sources.
wto meet in abu dhabi
delegates from around the world had converged in abu dhabi for the 5-day world trade organization (wto) ministerial meet on monday (feb 26), where discussions on global trade rules commenced. highlighting the disparities in global e-commerce, india underscored the dominance of a few firms from developed countries.
despite the discussions for days, the 13th ministerial conference of the wto concluded on march 1 without significant decisions on crucial issues such as finding a permanent solution to public food stockpiling and curbing fisheries subsidies.
watch | musk: openai has abandoned its mission of ai for humanity
however, an agreement was reportedly reached to extend the moratorium on import duties for e-commerce trade for additional two years, providing temporary relief amidst unresolved disputes.
wto is an international organisation that regulates international trade between nations. it was established on january 1, 1995, succeeding the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt), which had been in place since 1948.
the wto serves as a forum for negotiating trade agreements, settling disputes between member countries, and monitoring national trade policies to ensure compliance with established rules.
(with inputs from agencies)
###
catholic-bishops-object-to-senate-ivf-bill-warn-against-deaths-of-preborn-children: 
washington, d.c. newsroom, mar 1, 2024 / 19:00 pm (cna).
catholic bishops are urging lawmakers to oppose a bill that would create a federally sanctioned right to access in vitro fertilization (ivf) — a fertility treatment that has resulted in the deaths of millions of human embryos in the united states.
the bill, called the access to family building act, was introduced by sen. tammy duckworth, d-illinois. this legislation would establish a federally protected right to ivf access, preempting state-imposed restrictions.
“we can understand the profound desire that motivates some of these couples to go to great lengths to have children, and we support morally licit means of doing so,” the heads of four united states conference of catholic bishops’ committees wrote in a letter to lawmakers.
“the solution, however, can never be a medical process that involves the creation of countless preborn children and results in most of them being frozen or discarded and destroyed,” the bishops emphasized.
the four signatories were bishop michael burbidge, who chairs the usccb’s committee on pro-life activities; bishop robert barron, who chairs the committee on laity, marriage, family life, and youth; archbishop borys gudziak, who chairs the committee on domestic justice and human development; and bishop kevin rhoades, the chairman of the committee for religious liberty.
ivf, the bishops warned, is “a threat to the most vulnerable of human beings.” they further rebuked the ivf industry as one that is “built on millions of children who are created to be destroyed or abandoned.”
“contrary to what some have claimed, a position that supports legal enshrinement of ivf, however well-intended, is neither pro-life nor pro-child,” the bishops added. “approaches such as investing in life-affirming research on infertility, or strengthening support for couples who desire to adopt, would be better to explore.”
ivf is a fertility treatment in which doctors fuse sperm and eggs to create human embryos and implant them in the mother’s womb without a sexual act. embryos that are intended to be implanted at a later date are frozen. undesired embryos are routinely destroyed or used for scientific research, which kills those preborn children.
duckworth’s ivf bill was introduced in response to an alabama supreme court decision, which ruled that human embryos are legal persons under the state’s wrongful death of a minor act. with significant republican support, both chambers of the alabama legislature passed a bill that would shield ivf clinics from criminal and civil liability in cases of embryo deaths.
because of an objection on the senate floor from sen. cindy hyde-smith, r-mississippi, the bill was blocked from advancing via unanimous consent and must go through the committee process before it can receive a vote.
hyde-smith claimed that the bill, dubbed the access to family building act, would go “far beyond providing legal access to ivf.” she suggested that it would force religious groups to facilitate ivf procedures and cover such procedures in their insurance plans. she also said it would legalize human cloning, three-parent embryos, and gene-edited designer babies.
duckworth rejected that characterization, claiming the legislation would simply prevent states from restricting access to ivf procedures. she said it would not force anyone to provide them or cover them.
“this bill does three things and three things only,” duckworth said in response to hyde-smith.
“it protects the right of individuals to seek assisted reproductive technology without fear of being prosecuted,” duckworth continued. “…it preserves the right of physicians to provide that assisted reproductive technology without fear of being prosecuted. and it also allows insurance companies to cover assisted reproductive technology.”
hyde-smith and dozens of other republicans continued to emphasize that they support access to ivf despite the destruction to human life that is integral to the process. several lawmakers have even suggested that supporting ivf is pro-life.
“i support the ability for mothers and fathers to have total access to ivf and [to bring] new life into the world,” hyde-smith said when objecting to the proposal. “i also believe human life should be protected.”
rep. nancy mace, r-south carolina, has already introduced a resolution that would affirm the house of representatives’ support for ivf. supporters of ivf include former president donald trump, the national republican senatorial committee, and the congressional leadership fund, which is the main house republican political action committee.
if you value the news and views catholic world report provides, please consider donating to support our efforts. your contribution will help us continue to make cwr available to all readers worldwide for free, without a subscription. thank you for your generosity!
click here for more information on donating to cwr. click here to sign up for our newsletter.
###
australian-defence-partnership-provides-support-and-equipment-tongan-defence-services: 
australian defence has gifted his majesty’s armed forces (hmaf) a shipment of bedding, manchester, white goods, and health and hygiene packs on the commencement of hmaf’s 73rd basic recruit intake course beginning on friday, 23 february 2024, under a gender, peace and security initiative.
defence advisor south pacific (dasp), colonel sean benporath, made the handover to a/component commander training lieutenant colonel chris tupou on thursday 22 february, at taliai military camp at fua’amotu on tongatapu.
the gender, peace and security (gps) initiative under the australian defence cooperation program (dcp) sponsored the purchase with the intent to improve the quality of life of hmaf's recruits posted to the camp, and to ensure they have access to quality bedding and equipment during their training.
women, peace and security
the united nations security council resolution (unscr 1325) on women, peace and security (wps) affirms the role of women in the prevention and resolution of conflicts and in all efforts for the promotion of peace and security – an initiative the australian government is committed to the implementation of the resolution.
the australian defence force continues to prioritise the wps agenda and recognises that women make an indispensable perspective in every aspect of then planning and the conduct of military operations, through the provision of leadership and other activities.
the australian defence cooperation program wishes his majesty’s armed forces 73rd basic recruit intake their best wishes for the upcoming course.
tongan royal navy
separately, australia has also provided the tongan royal navy with a specialised boarding party kit. the kit, provided by the australia defence cooperation program was presented to his majesty’s armed forces, and will be used by the tonga royal navy in their endeavours to bolster maritime security, safeguard regional stability and promote adherence to international law within tongan waters.
defence advisor south pacific colonel sean benporath, made the handover to component commander tonga royal navy, commander taniela tuita on thu 22 feb, at masefield naval base.
the specialised boarding party equipment consisting of a tactical helmet; ess goggles, boarding party jacket, tactical shirts, gloves and holsters are designed to enhance boarding party capabilities, manoeuvrability, and comfort during lengthy operations when a sailors board a vessel for the purposes of searching it.
the australian defence force has an existing and longstanding relationship with his majesty’s armed forces, and the gifting of this equipment is just another milestone in the relationship. the australian defence cooperation program look forward to conducting familiarisation training with the tonga royal navy in the near future.
--
###
what-is-oxybenzone-48485300: 
what is oxybenzone? the controversial sunscreen ingredient, explained
sunscreen is arguably the most important step in any skin-care routine, and if you use one regularly, then you should know that its purpose is to protect your skin from the sun's harmful uv rays that (without the proper precautions) can have a citadel of consequences, from skin cancer, dark spots, and premature aging, among other things. you may have also heard conflicting arguments about controversial ingredients commonly found in some spf products, like oxybenzone.
if you're unfamiliar, oxybenzone is present in many chemical sunscreens, though it's been flagged by many organizations — particularly the environmental working group (ewg) — for being potentially harmful to our bodies and coral reefs. to get a better understanding of the sunscreen ingredient, read ahead as a dermatologist explains everything you need to know about oxybenzone.
what is oxybenzone?
oxybenzone is a derivative of benzophenone and a common sunscreen ingredient used in sunscreens. but unlike mineral formulas that physically block your skin from the sun, oxybenzone is an active ingredient found in chemical sunscreens.
"[it's] not physical, therefore instead of sitting on top of the skin, it's actually absorbed to filter out uv rays via a chemical reaction," multi-specialist physician azza halim, md, tells popsugar.
why is oxybenzone so controversial?
while oxybenzone is an fda-approved chemical, and the american academy of dermatology (aad) considers the ingredient safe to use when it comes to human health, it's also one of several common chemical sunscreen ingredients like avobenzone, octisalate, homosalate, and octinoxate that the ewg has flagged. why? according to dr. halim, some research indicates that (like in the peer-reviewed journal of the american medical association), because it can be absorbed by the skin, oxybenzone can potentially affect hormone levels in animals.
"chemicals are chemicals with different safety profiles, and we do know that oxybenzone has been attributed to hormone/endocrine disruption, and it's been found in breast-milk samples of lactating mothers," she says. "research has shown a potential link between oxybenzone and lower testosterone levels in adolescent boys, hormone changes in men, and shorter pregnancies and disrupted birth weights in babies."
more recent research suggests that oxybenzone is damaging to coral reefs. according to the national oceanic and atmospheric administration (noaa), oxybenzone can cause defects and reproduction issues in fish, damage the immune systems of sea urchins, and impair the growth of green algae. as a result, in 2021, hawaii became the first state to ban the sale of sunscreen products containing the ingredient.
should i stop using sunscreen with oxybenzone?
while the data on how oxybenzone impacts human health is limited, and oversimplifying the science or calling an ingredient "good" or "bad" without a full understanding of the research can lead to misinformation among consumers, whether you choose to use the ingredient depends on your personal preference. sunscreen is a key skin-care product to have in your routine if you want to protect your skin's health, and the above research hasn't been substantial enough for the fda to rule oxybenzone sunscreens unsafe to use.
that said, if you are using a sunscreen with the ingredient in it and want to swap it out for something more environmentally friendly, you can opt for a mineral sunscreen. "the fewer ingredients in a product, the better, which is why when looking for an effective sunscreen, one can find plenty of physical sunblocks that contain only two ingredients: zinc oxide and titanium dioxide with an spf of 50 to ward off both uva and uvb," dr. halim says.
— additional reporting by jessica harrington
###
kkr-weighing-stake-sale-biggest-060505443.html: 
kkr weighing stake sale in biggest philippine hospital firm, sources say
(bloomberg) -- kkr & co. is exploring a possible sale of its stake in metro pacific health, the biggest private hospital operator in the philippines, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
most read from bloomberg
trump warns of big losses from asset sales during property slump
india’s blowout gdp based on data distortion that masks slowdown
elon musk sues openai and altman for breaching firm’s founding mission
the private equity firm is seeking financial advisers to help prepare a potential sale of its stake in the health-care services provider, the people said, asking not to be identified because the deliberations are private. new york-listed kkr could seek a valuation of at least $3 billion for the company, the people said.
the stake could draw interest from other buyout firms and industry players, one of the people said. deliberations are ongoing and kkr could decide to keep its holding for longer, the people said.
a representative for kkr declined to comment.
a kkr-led consortium including singaporean sovereign wealth fund gic pte bought into what was then metro pacific hospitals in 2019 at a valuation of $1.6 billion. it was renamed metro pacific health in 2022.
read more: gic-backed philippine hospital mulls reviving $1 billion ipo
metro pacific health president augusto palisoc told bloomberg news he wasn’t aware of any sale plan by kkr and declined to comment directly on the matter. the company’s management continues to “focus on growing our network and our business, and becoming more efficient, so we can continue to deliver quality and affordable health care,” he wrote in a text message.
read more: metro pacific to double hospitals in eight years, president says
metro pacific health has 23 hospitals around the philippines, 26 outpatient facilities and six cancer care centers, as well as health colleges and a laboratory, according to its website. the company’s parent is metro pacific investments corp., which bloomberg reported this week is considering combining its toll road business with san miguel corp.’s.
--with assistance from dong cao and cliff venzon.
most read from bloomberg businessweek
the monaco royals whose deals have brought peril to the palace doors
china’s piano dreams are fading for a cash-strapped middle class
top takeaways from businessweek’s investigation into monaco’s royal family
©2024 bloomberg l.p.
###
1754033: 
moscow, march 1. /tass/. russian forces repulsed two ukrainian attacks in the south donetsk direction and thwarted two attempted rotations of the enemy forces in the area, spokesman for russia’s battlegroup east alexander gordeyev told tass on friday.
"the russian forces repelled two attacks of the 102nd territorial defense brigade near the settlement of malinovka and also prevented the enemy troops’ attempted rotations near the settlements of malinovka and ravnopol," he said.
according to him, the russian forces wiped out strongholds and places of ukrainian manpower deployment near the communities of urozhainoye, ravnopol, ugledar, staromayorskoye and gulyaipole eliminating 12 temporary stationing points, two drone navigation centers and one arming point.
the enemy’s losses amounted to over 100 personnel killed and wounded, a gvozdika motorized artillery system, a d-20 howitzer and three motor vehicles, gordeyev added.
###
pennsylvania-partners-with-dhs-cisa-censors-to-target-election-speech-it-deems-a-threat: 
democratic pennsylvania gov. josh shapiro announced thursday the state would partner with state and federal agencies, including the u.s. department of homeland security, to “mitigate threats” to elections, such as speech it deems “misinformation.” the pennsylvania state department separately revealed to the federalist that the task force’s cooperation with dhs would include “continu[ing] to work closely” with the cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency (cisa).
shapiro created the “pennsylvania election threats task force” that will “coordinate plans to mitigate threats to the election process, protect voters from intimidation, and provide voters with accurate, trusted election information.”
“the election threats task force will ensure all levels of government are working together to combat misinformation,” the press release continued. secretary of the commonwealth al schmidt said the force would target those who spread “lies and baseless conspiracy theories” or attempt “to delegitimize our safe, secure, and accurate elections.”
the state provided no public information about what the task force’s collaboration with dhs would look like, but after multiple inquiries, the department of state revealed the partnership would include collaboration with cisa, which falls under dhs.
“the department of state will continue to work closely with the united states department of homeland security and its cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency (cisa),” said press matt heckel of the state department’s communications office. “the formation of the election threats task force will allow us to open lines of communication and share intelligence among the included government agencies.”
it is unclear what “intelligence” is being referred to or what will be done with said information.
cisa has a history of censoring election-related speech
in working with cisa, pennsylvania is partnering with the “nerve center” of the censorship efforts the federal government has weaponized against americans and their free speech, including speech about election integrity. shapiro said part of the task force’s mission is to “combat misinformation,” but cisa has used the “misinformation” smear to wrongfully censor online speech before.
[read: government censorship op targeted the federalist’s mollie hemingway, sean davis during 2020 election]
cisa, which has facilitated collusion between big tech companies and federal agencies to flag speech the government disapproves of, doesn’t just target free speech it claims is false, but also punishes americans for “malformation,” which the agency defines as anything “based on fact, but used out of context to mislead, harm, or manipulate.”
cisa director jen easterly put it in more dystopian terms, explaining the agency wants to secure the public’s “cognitive infrastructure.”
documents obtained by america first legal show that cisa was aware of risks associated with unsupervised mail-in voting ahead of the 2020 election but still chose to classify social media posts pointing out similar concerns as “disinformation” before flagging them to be censored.
internally, cisa went so far as to create a six-point list in october 2020 warning of the risks to the mail-in voting process, weeks after communications revealed cisa knew that evidence did not support the claim that in-person voting “increased the spread of covid.” internal communications also revealed cisa was aware of “challenges with absentee voting” including “high numbers of improperly completed ballots.”
but cisa then partnered with consulting firm deloitte and asked them to notify cisa of social media trends about “narratives relating to ‘vote-by-mail’ — and to flag specific social media posts for cisa’s awareness and attention.”
tweets deloitte flagged to cisa included an october 2020 tweet from former president donald trump in which he claimed there were “big problems and discrepancies with mail in ballots all over the usa” as well as a tweet from a conservative pundit who, as deloitte described, “accused twitter of ‘suppressing’ a story about the democratic presidential nominee’s son to help the nominee win the election.”
cisa on trial
curiously, shapiro’s press release didn’t explicitly mention cisa’s involvement. the omission comes at the same time that some state election officials, such as west virginia’s secretary of state mac warner, have “pulled away” from cisa because “when we have our own federal agencies lying to the american people, that’s the most insidious thing that we can do in elections.”
but cisa is no stranger to working in the shadows. the agency has tried to cover up its tracks in recent years, according to a report from the house select subcommittee on the weaponization of the federal government detailing cisa’s “disinformation” and surveillance programs. the report claims cisa tried to “disguise the true nature” of its work by scrubbing “references to surveillance and censorship” from the agency’s website.
in an email exchange with the federalist, the pennsylvania state department was not immediately forthcoming about the extent of the keystone state’s partnership with cisa — but the agency’s license to censor americans in the future hangs on a case that’s currently at the supreme court.
in missouri v. biden, now murthy v. missouri, the 5th circuit court of appeals issued a preliminary injunction in october barring the agency from taking any “actions, formal or informal, directly or indirectly, to coerce or significantly encourage social-media companies to remove, delete, suppress, or reduce, including through altering their algorithms, posted social-media content containing protected free speech.” the supreme court lifted the injunction while it considers the case, but has yet to rule on the censorship activities of cisa and other biden administration agencies.
dhs says ‘misinformation’ is a ‘terrorism threat’
another partner in pennsylvania’s new “task force” is cisa’s parent agency dhs, which has its own history of targeting americans’ free speech under the guise of preventing “threats.”
dhs has described an “online environment” of “misinformation” about covid-19 and election integrity as a “terrorism threat.” the agency warned the nation remained in a “heightened threat environment fueled by several factors, including an online environment filled with false or misleading narratives and conspiracy theories, and other forms of mis- dis- and mal-information (mdm) introduced and/or amplified by foreign and domestic threat actors.”
“these threat actors seek to exacerbate societal friction to sow discord and undermine public trust in government institutions to encourage unrest, which could potentially inspire acts of violence,” the agency claimed in a february 2022 bulletin. “for example, there is widespread online proliferation of false or misleading narratives regarding unsubstantiated widespread election fraud and covid-19. grievances associated with these themes inspired violent extremist attacks during 2021.”
the dhs, however, failed to provide any evidence of their claims when repeatedly pressed by the daily caller news foundation. the agency also targeted americans who rejected their governments’ heavy-handed approach to covid-19 and questioned lockdown policies.
the national terrorism advisory system issued a bulletin warning that grievances over “perceived government restrictions” and “anti-government/anti-authority violent extremists” could pose a domestic terrorist threat.
this is the same federal department that will now “coordinate” with pennsylvania to “mitigate” so-called “threats” and tackle “misinformation.”
###
43-people-killed-in-overnight-bangladesh-blaze: 
world news 43 people killed in overnight bangladesh blaze abdullah azizi 1 mar 2024 - 13:51 abdullah azizi 1 mar 2024 - 13:51 kabul (pajhwok): at least 43 people have been killed after a fire broke out in a multi-storey building in bangladesh, according to a media . . . you need to subscribe to view the full article. please login or register a new account. related topics bangladesh blaze
###
california-credit-union-offers-summer-internship-program-for-los-angeles-county-students-302076043.html: 
01 mar, 2024, 08:15 et
los angeles, march 1, 2024 /prnewswire/ -- applications are now available for california credit union's summer internship program for local high school seniors and college students. now in its third year, the program offers paid internships to provide students with professional work experience and mentoring in multiple areas throughout the organization, including opportunities in the real estate, electronic services, human resources and accounting departments.
"we're committed to supporting our local students in every area, including providing hands-on work experience and mentoring to help set them up for success in the financial industry and open doors to a future career," said california credit union president/ceo steve o'connell. "through our summer internship program, we will integrate students into teams across the credit union so they can apply what they learn in the classroom to a hands-on setting in the business world."
los angeles county college students and high school seniors can learn more and apply for the internships through the credit union's website. applications will be accepted through april 12th for the summer program.
the california credit union internships will provide students with practical work experience within and across multiple departments, leadership development skills, and school-to-career readiness, with direct training and mentoring with managers. all internships will be paid, part-time opportunities at the credit union's glendale headquarters offices from june 24th through august 16th.
about california credit union
california credit union is a federally insured, state chartered credit union founded in 1933 with assets of nearly $5 billion, approximately 200,000 members and 25 retail branches. the credit union serves community members and businesses in the california counties of los angeles, orange, riverside, san bernardino, san diego and ventura as well as school employees throughout the state. the credit union operates in san diego and riverside counties as north island credit union, a division of california credit union. the credit union offers a full suite of consumer, business and investment products and services, including comprehensive consumer checking and loan options, personalized financial planning, business banking, and leading-edge online and mobile banking. california credit union is certified as a community development financial institution (cdfi) with a low income designation, offering inclusive products and services to build financial stability in our underserved communities, including a checking account certified as meeting the bank on national account standards. visit ccu.com for more information or follow the credit union on instagram® or facebook® @californiacreditunion.
source california credit union
###
2004338: 
classical dancer amarnath ghosh’s uncle on saturday said he is still in the dark about the details of his nephew’s death in the usa, even as four days have passed since he was shot dead.
kuchipudi and bharatnatyam dancer amarnath ghosh, who hailed from west bengal’s birbhum district and migrated to the us last year “to follow his dancing dreams,” was shot several times near the border of st louis' academy and central west end neighbourhoods. he died on the spot.
“we had informed the district police and administration about what we had heard from various sources. but till today we don’t have any details about his death, amarnath’s uncle shyamal ghosh said in suri.
amarnath, whose parents are no more, used to stay at subhas pally locality of suri town. he is the only child of his parents.
local councillor suparna roy also said that they didn’t have any information about the killing.
no official of the birbhum district administration was available for comment on this issue.
“hope we get the update of this heinous crime as early as possible. if i am not wrong this is 5th or 6th murder of indian students in 2 months. we all are worried here & griefing,” actor devoleena bhattacharjee, who is a friend of amarnath, said in a post on x on saturday.
it was bhattacharjee, who first alerted the authorities on social media about ghosh’s death.
bhattacharjee tagged the x handles of the indian embassy in the us, prime minister narendra modi and external affairs minister s jaishankar to look into the matter.
“only child in the family, mother died 3 years back. father passed away during his childhood… the reason, accused details everything are not revealed yet or perhaps no one left in his family to fight for it except his few friends,” she said on friday.
except for the headline, this story has not been edited by the telegraph online staff and has been published from a syndicated feed.
###
108124980: 
- commercial vehicle
- 2 min read
daimler truck, mitsubishi fuso, hino and toyota mou-based tie-up in progress
in may 2023, daimler truck, toyota, mftbc, and hino concluded a memorandum of understanding (mou) on accelerating the development of advanced technologies and merging mftbc and hino.
daimler truck ag ("daimler truck"), mitsubishi fuso truck and bus corporation ("mftbc"), hino motors ltd. ("hino") and toyota motor corporation ("toyota") today gave an update on the progress on the collaboration based on the mou.
in may 2023, daimler truck, toyota, mftbc, and hino concluded a memorandum of understanding (mou) on accelerating the development of advanced technologies and merging mftbc and hino. the planned collaboration is aimed toward achieving carbon neutrality and creating a prosperous mobility society by developing case technologies (connected / autonomous & automated / shared / electric) and strengthening the commercial vehicle business on a global scale.
according to the mou, mftbc and hino plan to merge on an equal footing and collaborate in the areas of commercial vehicle development, procurement, and production. the plan is to build a globally competitive japanese commercial vehicle manufacturer, with daimler truck and toyota investing equally in the (listed) holding company of the merged mftbc and hino.
while the definitive agreement for merging mftbc and hino was targeted to be signed by the end of march 2024 and integration complete by the end of 2024, the process of obtaining necessary regulatory clearances and approvals under competition and other laws and regulations, as well as the pending investigations related to hino's engine certification issues, are still ongoing. as such, the original schedule has been extended.
the timing of the envisaged execution of the definitive agreement and the implementation of the business integration will be announced as soon as a reliable timeline for the pending investigations is available. once all parties involved reach an agreement, they will move forward based on the approval of the relevant boards of directors, shareholders, and authorities.
based on the common desire to "contribute to a prosperous society through mobility", the four companies have been discussing how mftbc and hino can work together to improve business efficiency and enhance competitiveness, and how daimler truck and toyota can work together to further enhance their technology development capabilities and promote case technology in order to contribute to customers and stakeholders in japan and asia, as well as the japanese automotive industry. through the discussion based on integrity, mutual respect, and diversity and by understanding each other's strengths and corporate culture, the parties confirm that the merger discussions are progressing on a positive note and that the strategic objectives and logic of the proposed transaction continues to be valid.
read also
be the first one to comment.comment now
###
what-ancient-athens-teach-modern-america-law-democracy: 
in december the supreme court in the american state of colorado held that former president donald trump was constitutionally ineligible to run for election again due to the fourteenth amendment’s prohibition on insurrectionists holding office. michigan’s supreme court held the exact opposite: trump must be placed on the ballot.
it is now up to the us supreme court to resolve the conflict. but for a growing number of observers, conservatives and liberals alike, the fact that courts are playing such a central role is something to be lamented. in their view, the answer to a threat to democracy is not judicial intervention, but rather more democracy.
if you want to see trump finally defeated, you have to beat him in a free and fair election.
despite the claims of donald trump and his supporters, there is nothing undemocratic about courts simply doing their job. but is it really true that law and democracy are so at odds? must we choose between enforcing our laws and saving our democracy? i think not.
if anything, the history of law teaches us the opposite lesson. the surest protection against tyranny is a devotion to the rule of law. and nowhere was this clearer than in ancient athens.
the democratic constitution of classical athens was laid down by three great lawgivers – draco, solon and cleisthenes – but it began with an insurrection. in 632 bc, an athenian nobleman named cylon attempted to overthrow the city’s traditional system of aristocratic rule.
with aid from a foreign adversary, the tyrant of megara, cylon seized the citadel of athens and sought to install himself as dictator. the athenians eventually managed to defeat cylon, but soon after recognised that their city needed firmer foundations. draco drafted his famous written legal code a decade later and thereafter athenian law remained centrally concerned with the prevention of tyranny.
the link between law and democracy was made explicit in a strange and imaginative procedure that athenians invented for banishing politicians from the scene. introduced in 508 bc by cleisthenes, known as the “father of athenian democracy”, the procedure, called ostracism, sought to guard athenians against the conniving ways of corrupt men.
each year, the assembly would take a vote on whether they wished to initiate an ostracism, in effect the banishment of a citizen from the city. but importantly, athenians did not know who in advance would be banished — they simply voted on whether to trigger the ostracism process itself.
if a majority voted in favor of triggering an ostracism, then two months later, the ostracism vote itself would take place. in this later vote, each citizen would scratch the name of the leader he wanted banished on a broken piece of pottery known as a potsherd, or ostraca. if at least 6,000 potsherds were cast, then the person whose name appeared most frequently on the potsherds would be “ostracised” or banished from the city for a period of 10 years.
for nearly a century, ostracism served as a powerful check on the ambitions of would-be tyrants. athenians came to view their democratic laws with nearly religious reverence. indeed, greek mythology held that it was zeus, the king of the gods, who had first given law to man. the philosopher aristotle wrote that law made human society possible. “for as man is the best of animals when perfected,” aristotle wrote, “so he is the worst of all when sundered from law and justice.”
law, of course, was responsible for its fair share of mischief, too. athenians were famously litigious — aristophanes joked in his play the clouds that “this can’t be athens; i don’t see any law courts”. some abused the legal system to harass and harry their enemies, a practice that came to be known as sycophancy.
click here to read more from the washington examiner
but these flaws notwithstanding, athenians continued to believe deeply in their laws. there was no greater testament to their success than the resilience of athenian democracy itself. their constitution introduced a period of political stability that lasted (with a few brief exceptions) for more than a century and a half, from 508 to 322bc.
this accomplishment is nothing short of miraculous when one considers the violent world surrounding the city, including its major wars with persia and sparta. in this time of fierce arguments over the future of american democracy, we would do well to remember the wisdom of the ancients. law is our greatest protection against tyranny. it is what makes rule by the people possible. and it only works if we the people are committed to it.
copyright the financial times limited 2024. all rights reserved.
the writer is a law professor at texas a&m university and the author of the just and the good: twelve laws that made the modern world (forthcoming).
###
?cs=4744: 
steve corrie has been big on brahmans since he was just 10-years-old, and has since shared this passion for the breed with his wife zoe and their children, shania, ayla, and p.j.
the corrie family runs their commercial operation across properties they've owned in gracemere and bouldercombe for four years, while they've leased breeding country in rannes for three years, though they've been leasing cattle country for a decade in total.
mr corrie's parents ran commercial and stud brahman herds, which got him hooked on the breed. he soon began to show and lead their cattle at the rockhampton junior beef show and has been an avid supporter of the brahman since.
"zoe is really into it now. she's taken the lead with the brahman herd, while i focus on our angus herd. these two herds are run separately," he said.
the corries love the brahman for its durability and hardiness.
"they are a quick responding animal. through the recent hard times with rain, 90 per cent of the herd is near on fat. the brahman also seems to turn around quickly with the rain. their natural tick and fly resistance is another plus."
mr corrie described their holdings in gracemere and bouldercombe, as "better country", which is under irrigation, which is where they bring their ptic cows and first-calf heifers. he said the country on rannes is also good quality, consisting of black soil creek flats to open forestry land, with a mix of green panic to buffel pastures throughout.
"the rain has been "really good" on the properties close to rockhampton, this year, but that the rannis block is in dire need of water and grass rain."
they leave their brahman bulls with their breeders on a year-round basis.
"due to us being a smaller operation every calf counts. we're very hands-on with the cattle, and due to our size, we can wean and brand at any time of the year that suits us.
"we've been rebuilding our herd for the last two years. this has included buying in a lot of stud and herd cattle. we also retain the majority of our heifers. we cull hard on any females that don't test pregnant each year. there are no second chances. this is how we ensure the overall fertility of the herd remains high."
mr corrie said they mainly sell steers, through cqlx, straight off their mothers at 180 to 200kg, so that they can offer a premium product.
"we've made a good name for ourselves and have several repeat buyers."
while the family had attended the rocky all stars elite brahman female sale for several years, it was at the 2023 sale that they made their first winning bids on a pair of malabar red brahman heifers. these heifers are close to having their first calves to a palmvale bull from remy streeter.
"we couldn't split the two so we bought both. their dam, malabar mary, is a great cow. one of these heifers was ai and the other was ivf. they're like two peas in a pod despite having different sires. they're long, fleshy, good doing heifers.
"when these heifers reach their 40-day cycle, they'll be ai'd with straws we bought out of the imported bull, mr mcc polled smoke 14/9. the resulting calves will be the first polled smoke progeny born in australia."
mr corrie said the all stars sale holds appeal as each vendor "takes their cream of the crop" heifers.
"the catalogue is pretty tough to tick standouts in as they're uniformly top heifers. i'll be heading back to the sale this year as there is another malabar mary daughter, that we are keen on. she's the first red by us imported sire m2 brc captain 518/1 to be offered in australia."
he said malabar stud principal tim krause, regularly checks in to see how the heifers are doing.
"i couldn't be happier dealing with tim. the krauses are a great family."
sign up for our newsletter to stay up to date.
we care about the protection of your data. read our privacy policy.
###
washington-man-faces-charges-after-troopers-found-62-lbs-of-marijuana-in-his-vehicle: 
york county neb. — a washington man faces charges after pounds of drugs were found in his vehicle during a traffic stop wednesday in york county.
dejuan nelms, 46, is charged in york county court with possession of marijuana with intent to deliver, possession of more than a pound of marijuana and no drug tax stamp.
according to an arrest affidavit, shortly before 3 p.m. wednesday, a nebraska state patrol trooper stopped an eastbound orange ford bronco driven by nelms four miles east of the york i-80 exit for following another vehicle too closely and for merging in front of another vehicle “at a close and unsafe distance.”
the trooper said he asked nelms what was inside his vehicle and he denied consent to search it. a k-9 was later alerted to drugs inside the vehicle and a probable cause search was conducted.
the affidavit says the search found 60 heat-sealed bags containing approximately 62 pounds of marijuana and a jar with three pounds of thc wax inside.
nelms’ bond has been set at $100,000, 10% of which must be posted for him to be released from jail. his next court hearing is set for 11 a.m. march 6.
###
cyber-attacks-michigan-legislation-bill-law-senator-sean-mccann-kalamazoo-artificial-intelligence-education-security-safety: 
lansing, mich. — a kalamazoo lawmaker introduced legislation friday that aims to help defend the state's higher education institutions safer from cyber threats.
senate bill 737, introduced by sen. sean mccann (d-kalamazoo), would establish a 24/7 security operation center, or soc, to provide cybersecurity threat detection, prevention and response capabilities for organizations.
following initial implementation costs, the soc operational costs are expected to be funded with dues from participating members, according to mccann.
“more and more, we are seeing institutions deal with escalating cyber-threats that could cause costly, dangerous and exploitative damage to the critical operations of our higher education institutions and the sensitive information they maintain. this bill will create a constant hub to prevent, defend and respond to cyber attacks on our public universities," mccann said.
several area universities and large companies have reported cyber attacks in recent years, including michigan state university in august 2023 and kalamazoo valley community college in may 2022.
if the legislation is signed into law, the michigan security operations center will work with merit network as the established network operator for higher education in the state of michigan to monitor and respond to network intrusions in novel and cost-effective ways.
###
indonesias-automotive-industry-has-potential-to-grow-bigger-ministry: 
the ministry's deputy for infrastructure and transportation coordination, rachmat kaimuddin, noted in a statement here on friday that based on the world population review data, with a gdp per capita of us$5,000, indonesia's car ownership ratio is still relatively low.
currently, indonesia's car ownership ratio stands at 82 units per 1,000 people.
meanwhile, in thailand, with a gdp per capita of us$7,000, the car ownership ratio stands at 280 per 1,000 people. as for china, with a gdp per capita of us$13,000, the ratio is 221 units per 1,000 people.
"if indonesia's gdp rises to us$10,000 (per capita) in 2030, the rate of car ownership can potentially reach 150 or 200 units per 1,000 people," he remarked.
he further highlighted that indonesia's automotive industry also has the potential to grow big on account of the fact that it is the biggest vehicle producer and market in southeast asia.
related news: tap automotive sector potential to compete globally: govt to industry
currently, around 40 percent of the automotives produced by indonesia had been exported to various asean countries, the middle east, north america, and south america.
he detailed that indonesia's vehicle exports to the asean make up 54 percent of the total exports, followed by 18 percent to the middle east, 15 percent to north america, six percent to south america, four percent to east asia, and one percent to africa.
a total of 571 thousand vehicles were exported during the january-december 2023 period, with more than 90 destination countries.
"with the huge potential, indonesia has the opportunity to become an export hub in this region, especially for the passenger car market," he stated.
related news: electric cars are future of indonesia's automotive industry: jokowi
translator: shofi ayudiana, raka adji
editor: yuni arisandy sinaga
copyright © antara 2024
###
sherbrooke-park-advisers-llc-purchases-shares-of-3253-the-allstate-co-nyseall.html: 
sherbrooke park advisers llc purchased a new stake in the allstate co. (nyse:all – free report) in the 3rd quarter, holdingschannel.com reports. the fund purchased 3,253 shares of the insurance provider’s stock, valued at approximately $362,000.
several other large investors have also recently added to or reduced their stakes in all. price t rowe associates inc. md raised its holdings in allstate by 123.7% in the 4th quarter. price t rowe associates inc. md now owns 5,540,295 shares of the insurance provider’s stock valued at $751,264,000 after acquiring an additional 3,064,105 shares in the last quarter. cowa llc acquired a new position in allstate in the 1st quarter valued at approximately $30,000. norges bank acquired a new position in allstate in the 4th quarter valued at approximately $190,865,000. invesco ltd. raised its holdings in allstate by 46.6% in the 3rd quarter. invesco ltd. now owns 4,121,941 shares of the insurance provider’s stock valued at $459,225,000 after acquiring an additional 1,311,095 shares in the last quarter. finally, morgan stanley raised its holdings in allstate by 29.0% in the 4th quarter. morgan stanley now owns 3,563,628 shares of the insurance provider’s stock valued at $483,228,000 after acquiring an additional 800,665 shares in the last quarter. institutional investors and hedge funds own 77.23% of the company’s stock.
allstate stock down 2.2 %
nyse all opened at $155.14 on friday. the stock has a fifty day moving average of $153.87 and a 200-day moving average of $133.34. the stock has a market capitalization of $40.81 billion, a p/e ratio of -125.11, a price-to-earnings-growth ratio of 0.43 and a beta of 0.52. the allstate co. has a 52 week low of $100.57 and a 52 week high of $168.05. the company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.51, a quick ratio of 0.37 and a current ratio of 0.37.
allstate increases dividend
the business also recently disclosed a quarterly dividend, which will be paid on monday, april 1st. investors of record on monday, march 4th will be paid a dividend of $0.92 per share. the ex-dividend date is friday, march 1st. this is a boost from allstate’s previous quarterly dividend of $0.89. this represents a $3.68 dividend on an annualized basis and a dividend yield of 2.37%. allstate’s payout ratio is -296.77%.
insider buying and selling
in related news, cao john c. pintozzi sold 4,000 shares of allstate stock in a transaction on tuesday, february 27th. the stock was sold at an average price of $159.47, for a total transaction of $637,880.00. following the completion of the sale, the chief accounting officer now directly owns 10,736 shares of the company’s stock, valued at $1,712,069.92. the sale was disclosed in a legal filing with the sec, which can be accessed through the sec website. 1.70% of the stock is owned by insiders.
analyst ratings changes
several equities analysts recently commented on the company. raymond james raised their target price on allstate from $155.00 to $180.00 and gave the stock a “strong-buy” rating in a research report on monday, january 22nd. roth mkm raised their target price on allstate from $145.00 to $160.00 and gave the stock a “buy” rating in a research report on friday, november 3rd. ubs group raised their target price on allstate from $171.00 to $185.00 and gave the stock a “buy” rating in a research report on monday, february 12th. jefferies financial group upgraded allstate from a “hold” rating to a “buy” rating and raised their target price for the stock from $130.00 to $180.00 in a research report on tuesday, january 9th. finally, bmo capital markets raised their target price on allstate from $140.00 to $158.00 and gave the stock a “market perform” rating in a research report on friday, january 19th. one analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, four have given a hold rating, thirteen have assigned a buy rating and one has issued a strong buy rating to the company. based on data from marketbeat.com, allstate presently has a consensus rating of “moderate buy” and a consensus price target of $159.12.
view our latest research report on all
allstate company profile
the allstate corporation, together with its subsidiaries, provides property and casualty, and other insurance products in the united states and canada. the company operates through allstate protection; protection services; allstate health and benefits; and run-off property-liability segments. the allstate protection segment offers private passenger auto and homeowners insurance; other personal lines products; and commercial lines products under the allstate and encompass brand names.
read more
- five stocks we like better than allstate
- health care stocks explained: why you might want to invest
- marketbeat week in review – 2/26 – 3/1
- options trading – understanding strike price
- how to buy bitcoin stock: 3 easy ways to do it
- how to buy cheap stocks step by step
- snowflake stock plunges, don’t be fooled, bargain alert
want to see what other hedge funds are holding all? visit holdingschannel.com to get the latest 13f filings and insider trades for the allstate co. (nyse:all – free report).
receive news & ratings for allstate daily - enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for allstate and related companies with marketbeat.com's free daily email newsletter.
###
us-driver-rescued-after-crash-leaves-lorry-dangling-over-side-of-bridge: 
us driver rescued after crash leaves lorry dangling over side of bridge
firefighter bryce carden abseiled down and lifted the woman to safety.
dramatic photos have been released of the rescue of a us lorry driver after she crashed off the edge of a bridge.
the woman was pulled from her cab from over the side of the george rogers clark memorial bridge connecting louisville, kentucky, to southern indiana.
she was unharmed but three other cars were involved in the crash, and two people were taken to hospital with possibly life-threatening injuries, according to louisville metro police.
he said the crash occurred when a southbound vehicle hit a stalled car and crossed into northbound traffic, where it struck the lorry and caused it to go through the guardrail and hang precariously off the edge of the bridge.
the truck was removed from the bridge at around 8pm on friday.
the bridge carries about 24,000 vehicles a day over the ohio river. officials said at a press conference that the bridge is safe and passed an inspection last year, but acknowledged that its four lanes are relatively narrow.
the accident was reported shortly after noon on friday.
mr greenberg said on saturday that he has spoken to the rescued driver, who has not been identified.
“she is incredibly brave. she is incredibly fortunate,” he said.
kentucky’s state highway engineer james ballinger said on saturday that while the bridge will need repairs after the crash, particularly to a pedestrian walkway, its structural integrity was not compromised.
###
icl-uses-ai-to-help-doctors-assess-lung-cancer-from-virtual-biopsies: 
imperial college london (icl) researchers have used artificial intelligence (ai) to identify information about the chemical makeup of lung tumours from medical scans of lung cancer.
published in npj precision oncology, the study demonstrates, for the first time, how medical imaging in combination with ai can be used to provide ‘virtual biopsies’ for cancer patients.
responsible for around 35,000 deaths each year, lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer death in the uk.
supported with funding from the national institute for health and care research’s imperial biomedical research centre, the non-invasive method works to classify the type of lung cancer patients have.
researchers used data from 48 lung cancer patients recruited from university hospital reina sofia in spain to develop an ai-powered, deep learning assessment tool called tissue-metabolomic-radiomic-ct (tmr-ct).
using the data, researchers observed a significant correlation between patients’ metabolomic profiles and the deep features of their ct scans, which appear either brighter or darker in certain areas of the image.
researchers then used the tmr-ct model in a group of 723 lung cancer patients recruited from royal marsden hospital, guy’s and st thomas’ hospital and imperial college nhs healthcare trust, which showed that tmr-ct successfully classified lung cancer and gave dependable predictions in relation to patient outcomes, surpassing the performance of traditional ct-based methods and clinical assessments.
the model could help doctors select the right course of treatment for patients and predict whether their cancer is likely to progress.
researchers also believe that the method could work on other groups of lung cancer patients as well as other types of cancer, including brain, ovarian and endometrial cancers.
first author of the study, marc boubnovski martell, said: “we’ve developed a system that merges ct scans with the chemical makeup of tumours and normal lung tissue” to “[allow] us to classify lung cancer types and… [provide] reliable predictions about patient outcomes.”
###
madeline-soto-13-found-dead-police-suspect-mother-boyfriend-moved-body-8603425: 
crime missing fla. girl madeline soto, 13, found dead, police suspect mother’s boyfriend moved her body madeline soto was reported missing on monday by ingrid vasquez ingrid vasquez ingrid vasquez is a digital news writer at people. she graduated from the university of texas at austin with a bachelor in journalism. before joining the team, she worked as an editor at fansided and provided work in the celebrity and lifestyle space for brands that include teen vogue, cosmopolitan, ew, and more. people editorial guidelines published on march 1, 2024 10:36pm est trending videos close this video player madeline soto. photo: orange county/orange the dead body of madeline soto was found dead in a wooden area five days after the 13-year-old was reported missing, and police suspect her mother's boyfriend moved her body. florida's orange county sheriff's office announced the news hours after sharing during a press conference on friday that they were "confident" soto was dead. the sheriff's office said that search teams from the osceola county sheriff's office located her body at about 4:30 p.m. in a wooded area off hickory tree road and that madeline's family had been notified. "we have no additional information to release at this time. kissimmee pd is the lead agency in this homicide investigation. that work continues," the update said. madeline soto. gofundme dairy queen employees claim manager forced them to eat ice cream tainted with cleaning solution news of her death comes days after she celebrated her 13th birthday on feb. 22, reports the orlando sentinel. madeline and her family lived in an apartment in kissimmee, fla. and she attended school in hunter’s creek middle school in orlando, according to nbc news. although it was believed that madeline was last seen on her way to school, orange county sheriff john w. mina said during the press conference that detectives determined that madeline was never dropped off by her mother's boyfriend, stephan sterns, 37. "instead, we believe she was already dead at the time and that stephan sterns moved her body in the early morning hours on that day. we have video evidence that shows stephen sterns discarding items in a dumpster in that apartment complex in kissimmee at 7:35 a.m. on monday, feb. 26," mina said. flyer showing madeline soto and suspect stephan sterns. an alabama inmate died of hypothermia. his family claims jailers locked him in 'freezer' "detectives later recovered madeline's backpack and her school-issued laptop from that dumpster. at 8:19 a.m., we have evidence that shows stephan sterns returning to the complex, and madeline was visible in that vehicle," continued mina. "we believe she was already dead at that time." kissimmee police chief betty holland said that the case remains an "active and ongoing situation" and that "there is a lot of additional information that we cannot release at this time." according to holland, sterns was transported from the orange county jail to the osceola county jail. want to keep up with the latest crime coverage? sign up for people's free true crime newsletter for breaking crime news, ongoing trial coverage and details of intriguing unsolved cases. sterns had been arrested and charged with sexual battery and possession of child sexual abuse material by kissimmee police on wednesday. although the charges were not connected to madeline's case, police said he was the prime suspect in her case. according to a previous update from the orange county sheriff's office, detectives found "disturbing images and videos" when they forensically examined his phone and learned that he attempted to delete evidence. if you or someone you know has been a victim of sexual abuse, text "strength" to the crisis text line at 741-741 to be connected to a certified crisis counselor. if you suspect child abuse, call the childhelp national child abuse hotline at 1-800-4-a-child or 1-800-422-4453, or go to www.childhelp.org. all calls are toll-free and confidential. the hotline is available 24/7 in more than 170 languages.
###
safeguard-consumers-from-potentially-dangerous-pain-relief-supplements: 
target: robert califf, commissioner for u.s. food and drug administration
goal: protect the public from popular supplements that could pose serious health risks.
two recent troubling cases highlight how a lack of regulation in the health supplement industry is possibly endangering consumers’ lives. for one, scrutiny is increasingly falling on kratom: an herbal supplement found in powder and pill forms and used to relieve pain and anxiety. this substance has reportedly been linked to thousands of deaths when taken in combination with other drugs. while the exact nature of the link is still being studied, some researchers believe the supplement may interfere with the body’s ability to properly break down other drugs.
another pain supplement, neptune’s fix, has also been associated with potential life-threatening drug interactions and side effects like seizures. this supplement contains an unapproved-for-medical-use ingredient called tianeptine. the substance is often referred to as gas station heroin because it is commonly found in gas stations and convenience stores, just like kratom substances (which are prolific online as well).
the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) has issued warnings about both of these supplements but has done little else to help curb their risk to consumers. despite efforts from organizations like the mayo clinic, the drug enforcement agency, and its parent agency the department of health and human services to bring greater awareness and action to kratom supplements, the fda has reportedly not assisted—and in some cases allegedly obstructed—these efforts. even an advocacy group for kratom agrees that more federal regulation is needed.
sign the petition below to demand a prominent agency for consumer protection do its job.
petition letter:
dear dr. califf,
warnings will never be sufficient if they do not reach the right ears and eyes. this agency defends its actions on possibly dangerous supplement substances like kratom and tianeptine, but polite requests that businesses stop selling or marketing these products are not sufficient. consumers should directly know of the potential dangers they are facing via clear labeling and warnings. even the american kratom association concurs with this assessment.
a handful of states have already taken the initiative to limit and better regulate supplements such as kratom, and it is far past time for this federal agency to follow suit. please join with the drug enforcement agency, the broader department of health and human services, and countless researchers and scientists who are trying to protect consumers from these hidden dangers to their health and their very lives.
sincerely,
[your name here]
photo credit: laryssa suaid
###
280247.vnp: 
pm to attend asean-australia special summit, pay official visits to australia, new zealand
prime minister pham minh chinh and his spouse will attend the asean-australia special summit to commemorate the 50th anniversary of asean-australia dialogue relations, and pay official visits to australia and new zealand from march 5-11, the ministry of foreign affairs has announced.
prime minister pham minh chinh (photo: vna)
hanoi (vna) – prime minister pham minh chinh and his spouse will attend the asean-australia special summit to commemorate the 50th anniversary of asean-australia dialogue relations, and pay official visits to australia and new zealand from march 5-11, the ministry of foreign affairs has announced.
the pm's attendance at the summit and visits will be made at the invitation of australian prime minister anthony albanese and prime minister of new zealand christopher luxon./.
###
60046111: 
california senate candidate rep. katie porter, a consumer advocate, says housing is a top priority
rep. katie porter's mistrust of those in power is rooted in what she witnessed, growing up in iowa in the 1980s.
rep. katie porter's mistrust of those in power is rooted in what she witnessed, growing up in iowa in the 1980s.
rep. katie porter's mistrust of those in power is rooted in what she witnessed, growing up in iowa in the 1980s.
the race for california's open u.s. senate seat has become a fierce battle between three democrats, some of california's best-known members of congress. known as a consumer advocate, congresswoman katie porter is used to fierce battles. in congressional hearings, she has taken on powerful corporate and government leaders using a simple whiteboard to illustrate her arguments.
porter's mistrust of those in power is rooted in what she witnessed growing up in iowa in the 1980s. she watched families lose their farms as land values plummeted. at the same time, as iowa hosted the first-in-the-nation caucuses in presidential politics, she saw candidates campaign throughout the state, making promises they didn't see to keep.
"so many people lost farms that had been in their family for generations, and there was also a sense of a loss of a future. what would we do here? there was no economy in a rural area like that, ready to replace it. so we saw people, including my mom, driving 120 miles a day round trip into the nearest city to be able to work. i think a lot of us felt like, 'what will happen to our town?'" explained porter.
years later, in harvard law school, she heard the same questions as she worked as a research assistant for future sen. elizabeth warren. while warren's research focused on why families end up in bankruptcy, much of porter's work was about what happens afterward. she found it's often 20 or 30 years of continued financial struggle.
when she became a congresswoman in 2019, she says she thought about those families as she got to work. "one of my big goals was to make sure that we wrote rules that were fair to consumers," porter said. "so often those rules are all written to favor big companies."
she says that's why she's fought to keep corporate money out of politics, including her own campaigns. she says the math is pretty simple.
"these are some of the most profitable corporations in the world," porter said. "they wouldn't make corporate pac donations if they weren't getting a return on their investment in terms of people taking those votes. so it was really important to me right from the beginning to have consumers and workers know that i'm fighting for them."
she is also addressing the political ads that accuse her of taking "donations from executives from big pharma, big oil and big banks." the ads are paid for by a pac backed mostly by members of the cryptocurrency industry, and independent reviews have called the ads false. specifically, they note the companies named in the ad don't technically fall under the "big" business categories.
| related | get the facts: claims in attack ad against california senate candidate katie porter
"the simple truth is i've never taken corporate money, and these special interests know it," said porter. "i think this is exactly what's wrong with our politics."
porter says in a divided congress, trying to pass consumer protections is only part of her work. she believes oversight and enforcement can be even more powerful, like the time she grilled the director of the centers for disease control and prevention, dr. robert redfield. during the pandemic, she convinced him to make covid-19 testing free for everyone.
"the law was already on the books to do that. we hear people always talk about what bill they're going to pass, and that matters," she explained. "but we also don't use a lot of the rules and laws that we have. there was already an existing law saying in a public health emergency you can make testing free."
before running for congress, porter taught at uc irvine's law school. she's currently on an extended leave from that job. porter is the only major candidate in this race who's raising school-aged children. her daughter is 12, and her sons are 15 and 18 years old. she knows it's rare for a single mom to talk about those challenges on the campaign trail.
"the uncertainty of the schedule is actually probably more like most americans than what we traditionally have seen in politics," porter said. "particularly, women elected officials running only after their kids are in college, or after their kids have married and moved out. when i talk about childcare and what this country needs to do, i get it because i've been that person who's had that sick kid while i was at work trying to figure out how to manage."
porter currently has her sights set on the housing crisis. as a senator, she would push lawmakers to "backstop" private capital, giving developers an incentive to build more affordable housing. like with much of her work, porter says in this race, she's driven by her hopes for her children's generation.
"my own son told me that he doesn't think he's going to live in california when he grows up. he's 15. and i asked him why, and he said, 'well, mom, i just think in california, you can never afford to buy a house.' these are real conversations, and they're about california's future, which is what the senate race should be about," she said. "it's what congress should be working on -- a better future."
as for the other leading candidates, here is where you can find our interviews with them:
###
?cs=6112: 
this is branded content for ritchie bros. auctioneers
australian farmers are turning to the secondhand market, and ritchie bros. auctioneers is gearing up to host the national unreserved agricultural auction, aptly named the 'machinery muster'.
scheduled for march 14, this event promises a diverse array of equipment, offering a unique opportunity for sellers to consign idle machinery and make a fresh start in 2024.
registration for the national unreserved agricultureal auction is now open, kicking off the bidding process on saturday, march 9.
the live online event on march 14 will see ritchie bros.' renowned online platform facilitating all sales.
with the largest unreserved auctions in australia under its belt, ritchie bros. has become a key player in connecting buyers with quality secondhand machinery.
despite fluctuations in the agricultural sector, ritchie bros. remains optimistic, having recorded a substantial 24 per cent increase in machinery prices in 2023.
gary biggs, ritchie bros. agricultural sales manager, expressed enthusiasm about the upcoming auction.
"our national unreserved agricultural auction on march 14 offers a strategic opportunity for consigners to clear out idle machinery and set a positive tone for the year," mr biggs said.
buyers have already started exploring machinery online and at seven locations across australia, including adelaide, brisbane, dubbo, geelong mittagong, and perth.
ritchie bros., recognised as the largest seller of used machinery in australia, leverages its extensive global database of machinery buyers to ensure consigners achieve maximum sale prices.
in a bid to adapt to the evolving needs of customers, ritchie bros. has embraced technology, setting new records for total sales, registered users, bids per item, and overall sales prices on its unreserved auction platform. to further support buyers, the company offers free virtual machine inspections via whatsapp or facetime, ensuring confidence and transparency in the purchasing process.
as the 'machinery muster' approaches, ritchie bros. extends an invitation to consigners to join the sale, creating a surge of quality machinery for the auction and providing a unique opportunity for sellers to connect with a broad audience of motivated buyers.
with a commitment to efficiency and innovation, ritchie bros. continues to play a pivotal role in facilitating agricultural machinery transactions in australia.
the auction will take place on march 14 2024. interested buyers can register at rbauction.com.au or contact 07 3382 4444 for more information.
this is branded content for ritchie bros. auctioneers
###
minnesota-crime-officer-involved-shooting-suspect-killed-traffic-stop-wright-county-minnesota-bca: 
motorist killed during confrontation with minnesota deputy
st. michael, mn (kroc-am news) - the minnesota bureau of criminal apprehension is investigating a fatal officer-involved shooting in a suburban community on the far northwestern edge of the twin cities.
a preliminary report on the incident issued by the wight county sheriff's office says the gunfire occurred during a traffic stop in st. michael around 4:50 am. the sheriff's office says the motorist pulled over, but then got out the vehicle with a weapon and confronted a wright county deputy.
the statement does not specify what type of weapon was involved. it does say the individual refused to comply with the deputy's commands and the confrontation escalated until the deputy discharged his firearm and shot the subject.
the sheriff's office says the deputies at the scene immediately attempted lifesaving measures until paramedics arrived. they continued administering lifesaving measures but were not successful and the sheriff's office says the driver of the vehicle was pronounced dead at the scene, which is along a residential street that is directly behind a middle school.
his name and the name of the deputy who fired his weapon have not been released. the deputy has been placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation into the deadly incident.
more minnesota news:
- bullet fired at minnesota law officer stopped by ballistic vest
- two minnesota men killed in fiery plane crash
- sentencing in minnesota high school prom check forgery case
the 10 most dangerous cities in minnesota in 2024
gallery credit: lauren wells
###
795202-KP-Assembly-to-elect-chief-minister-today: 
kp assembly to elect chief minister today
pakistan
pti nominated ali amin gandapur will face pml-n candidate dr ibadullah khan
peshawar (dunya news) – the khyber pakhtunkhwa assembly will pick new chief minister on friday (today).
pakistan tehreek-e-insaf (pti) nominated ali amin gandapur will face pml-n candidate dr. ibadullah khan.
on thursday, babar saleem swati was elected as the speaker and suraiya bibi as the deputy speaker. as the house has a majority of the pti-backed members, the session was calm. however, pro-pti founder slogans continued to echo in the house throughout the session.
swati defeated ehsanullah khan, the joint candidate of the ppp, anp, pml-n, and the pti-parliamentarians.
in the 106-strong house, he bagged 89 votes while khan polled 17 votes. outgoing speaker mushtaq ghani administered the oath to newly-elected speaker swati.
later, voting for the deputy speaker slot was held. suraiya bibi, who won the election from chitral on a general seat, defeated pti-p’s arbab muhammad waseem by securing 87 votes against her rival’s 19 votes.
the session was boycotted by the jui-f.
balochistan
the balochistan assembly will elect chief minister on saturday (tomorrow).
there is uncertainty in province as the ppp which is eyeing the slot “unopposed”, has yet to name its candidate.
according to sources, the candidate would be announced today (friday), hoping the ppp cm would get elected unopposed like the balochistan assembly speaker.
###
north-prov-housing-awarded-248k-by-hud-to-support-homeless-veterans: 
north prov housing awarded $248k by hud to support homeless veterans
saturday, march 02, 2024
“this program focuses its efforts on helping to secure affordable housing for our homeless veterans through the voucher program,” said arsenault.
according to the national coalition for homeless veterans, 13% of the homeless adult population are veterans.get the latest breaking news here -- sign up for golocal free daily eblast
in 2023, the va reported that 35,574 veterans experienced homelessness on any given night in january 2023. this was a 7.4% increase from 2022. there is no specific number available for the number of homeless veterans in rhode island.
npha works in conjunction with the providence va medical center to focus its efforts on homeless veterans.
the va medical center will identify a homeless veteran and make the referral to the housing authority as part of this initiative.
arsenault said, “the north providence housing authority employs a vash coordinator whose sole focus is to assist our veterans. this ensures that phone calls, emails, etc. are managed timely and ultimately resulting in a successful lease up of the veteran. “
the announcement comes a day after the mckee’s administration said that there would be no prioritization for veterans at the pallet home facility scheduled to open in providence this spring.
related articles
- advocates appeal to mckee to provide 500 permanent “pallet shelters” to help the unsheltered
- politician blocked pallet houses, claiming they would attract sex offenders - now he is charged
- photo of the week: new pallet homes in providence
- mckee admin refuses to answer questions about vets preference and undocumented in pallet homes
- pallet homes: cost per person for first year is $66,000
- pallet house questions - we got answers after days of asking
- failed policies by elorza see homeless sleep on providence city hall steps
- whitcomb: better places for the homeless; somerset mess; permanent pandemic; guns, guns, guns
- guilty plea filed in bank fraud scheme exploiting homeless riers
- providence councilor announces opposition to housing for the homeless project
- stabbing reported at homeless tent encampment in providence, police investigating
- no parking options for homeless riers, say advocates - protest thursday at state house
- four charged in scheme using and threatening homeless individuals in ri to cash bogus checks
- is nyc shipping its homeless to ri a big deal? some local mayors think so
- caught in providence: inspired by the homeless
- rickman’s big view - providence’s homelessness problem
- homeless man struck with rock, robbed of $12 in providence’s kennedy plaza
- crossroads receives $495k from city of providence for homelessness intervention initiative
- man sentenced to 41 months in federal prison for bogus check scheme that exploited homeless riers
- this top rhode island restaurant has delivered over 4,000 meals to healthcare workers & homeless
- episcopal church chided ri leaders on homeless - while sitting on millions in property
- $10 million awarded to address homelessness by ri department of housing
- protesters target mayor smiley over police raids on homeless encampments
- ri pays nearly $7m for charlesgate — to be used for housing for the homeless
- ri legislators want to use medicaid waiver funds to provide homeless with housing
- whitcomb: closed churches for homeless; a serious immigration bill; rep. george santos (r-moscow)?
- protesters urge mckee to address looming unsheltered homeless crisis
- cranston councilor opposes pallet housing project for the homeless
- updated: aclu says mckee’s eviction of homeless has serious legal issues, threatens court action
- doe v. mckee: aclu files suit to allow encampment to continue — battle over homeless policy elevates
- ex-wife of cranston councilman facing child sex assault and drug charges says she faces homelessness
###
average-15--hike-in-collector-guideline-rates-likely.html: 
district evaluation committee meeting was held under the chairmanship of indore collector ashish singh to decide the guidelines for government guideline rate of sale of land and immovable property in indore district. senior district registrar amresh naidu, district registrar deepak sharma and dig registration balkrishna maurya participated in this evaluation committee meeting.
senior district registrar indore, amresh naidu, while talking to the pioneer, said that the guidelines will be increased on 40% of the total immovable properties area in indore district from april 1,2024 and there will be no increase in the guideline rate on 60% of the remaining immovable properties which are located in both urban and rural areas.
senior district registrar amresh naidu also informed that the average rate of increase in the guideline rate from april 1,2024 in indore district will be 15%.
###
boyfriend-hawaii-island-drowning-victim-arrested-separate-investigation: 
boyfriend of hawaii island drowning victim arrested in separate investigation
honolulu (hawaiinewsnow) - the boyfriend of a woman who drowned in waters off hawaii island more than a week ago has been arrested and charge in connection with a separate investigation, authorities said.
police arrested 31-year-old dylan gapp, of keaau, sunday evening after an altercation in the hawaiian paradise park subdivision.
investigators said gapp allegedly tried to start a fight with a man and chased him with an atv when he tried to walk away.
according to hpd, a witness said the victim had to jump over a rock wall and into the bushes just to avoid getting hit. police said he was not injured.
gapp was charged with terroristic threatening and released after posting $5,000 bail.
prosecutors are also reviewing a second case where gapp allegedly damaged a man’s vehicle and gate to his property on kiawe road in keaau on feb. 20.
authorities said the victim in this case reported that gapp was in possession of a firearm, however police said no firearm was recovered, and there were no reported injuries.
the police department is asking anyone who may have information on these incidents to contact detective kimo keliipaakaua of the area i criminal investigation section at (808) 961-2375, or via email at kimo.keliipaakaua@hawaiicounty.gov.
two days before the feb. 20 incident, gapp’s girlfriend kalai reyes drowned in waters off hawaiian paradise park.
police said detectives have conclusively ruled out foul play in her death and a forensic pathologist ruled that it was an accidental drowning.
in a previous interview with hawaii news now, gapp said his grief is mixed with anger because he believes that more should have been done to save her.
copyright 2024 hawaii news now. all rights reserved.
###
aid-convoy-in-gaza-turns-deadly: 
a desperate attempt for food turned deadly in gaza on thursday after eyewitnesses and local officials reported more than a hundred people were killed while gathering around a convoy of aid trucks.
the attack happened in gaza city where witnesses say israeli forces opened fire followed by chaos around the fleet of trucks.
a journalist on the ground reported, that once the shooting began, the trucks tried to escape, and some people were killed after being run over. israel says the initial gunfire were warning shots after the 30 aid trucks arrived.
they say the convoy moved past israeli troops and then a mass group of palestinians approached the trucks.
read more: u.s. vetoes third u.n. resolution for immediate ceasefire in gaza
the israeli forces say they’re looking into this and a second incident involving gunfire as they believe troupes are being approached in a threatening way.
“the visuals that we’ve distributed stalled, that and stampeded the truckloads as they climbed the bomb, they were pushing, they were shoving people were trampled, and also run over, we have to keep in mind this is a combat zone and our forces are confronted with explosive devices that hamas terrorists have attached to the tanks, rpg weapons, all different types of attacks,” says isreal defense forces spokesperson lt. peter lerner.
“civilians cannot be a target. civilians need to be protected. and we call for a full investigation into what was reported. we from ourselves have no information as to what happened in these events,” according to un spokesperson to the un secretary-general stéphane dujarric.
today, both the biden administration and hamas believe these attacks could hinder talks of a ceasefire. according to palestinian authorities, today’s incident brings the death toll in gaza to more than 30,000 people since the war began.
###
newark-cop-suffers-second-degree-burns-when-woman-flings-hot-liquid-at-officers: 
a newark police officer was hospitalized friday after a woman flung hot liquid into his face as officers were assisting child protection workers, authorities said.
cops were called to help the department of child protection and permanency (dcp&p), new jersey’s child protection and welfare agency, at about 3:30 p.m. when the incident occurred.
information was scant friday evening, but it appeared that officers were called to an apartment to assist dcp&p. a “female suspect” threw hot liquid at one of them, newark public safety director fritz fragé told wpix. authorities suspect it was bleach.
the cop was taken to a hospital and treated for second-degree burns, frage said, and the woman was taken into custody. she was not identified, and police had not specified charges by friday night.
authorities were investigating and did not release details on the officer’s condition or on what led to the attack.
###
article_af64bd04-d645-11ee-8ac1-cf2ce1cb697e.html: 
law enforcement officials cannot point to a single reason for a disturbing and persistent trend they have witnessed in the past four months.
but all of the cases involve what is literally a pedestrian activity: walking.
since november, at least 11 pedestrians in western new york have died after being hit by a motor vehicle. the fatalities have often happened on busy thoroughfares, but not always. they have involved cars, trucks and motorcycles.
and they are part of a national trend. according to the governors highway safety association, the organization that tracks pedestrian deaths nationwide, more than 7,500 pedestrians were killed by drivers in 2022, reaching a 40-year high.
a new analysis from 2023 showed a slight drop in the rates with around 3,373 pedestrian fatalities in the united states in the first half of 2023. despite the “modest 4% decrease,” pedestrian deaths have risen at a steady 14% rate since 2019.
people are also reading…
“this is a crisis. we are losing 20 people every single day,” said adam snider, director of communications at the ghsa.
local communities have been working in recent years to address the issue of pedestrians being hit while trying to cross busy streets where vehicles can be traveling 40 mph or faster. but the most recent incident occurred on feb. 21, when a woman was struck by a car in the early morning at isherwood drive in the town of niagara while crossing the street after retrieving her garbage cans.
other instances include:
- nov. 13: a 65-year-old rochester man was killed after being struck by a delivery driver on southwestern boulevard near stadium drive during the buffalo bills’ game against the denver broncos.
- nov. 24: a pedestrian was killed after being struck by a northbound vehicle on the 4200 block of lake avenue in the town of hamburg.
- dec. 9: both the pedestrian and the motorcyclist involved in a crash died following the incident on south park avenue in south buffalo.
- dec. 15: a 69-year-old buffalo sewer authority worker died after being struck by an intoxicated motorist while crossing william street on buffalo’s east side.
- jan. 8: a pedestrian was killed after being hit by a car on transit road in elma.
the study by tonawanda and amherst found there aren’t enough intersections with signals and crosswalks, the road is too dark at night and it takes too long for pedestrians to
cheektowaga saw four pedestrian-car crashes in the last four months, with at least two fatalities.
the most recent happened when a man was struck by an suv while shoveling snow in front of his losson road home. amherst resident matthew althoff was arrested feb. 26 and charged with striking 41-year-old antwain hankle and then fleeing the scene of the fatal accident.
cheektowaga police lt. david vogel said he could not determine a singular cause behind the uptick in the recent months. however, he explained the various measures that are being taken by officials to combat the problem. cheektowaga has applied for and received grant funding from the new york state governor’s traffic safety committee for its traffic unit to penalize aggressive driving in problem-prone areas. vogel and his team run accident statistics among other data to identify the problem areas before officers conduct targeted roving patrols.
“roving patrols plus our joint stationary seatbelt checkpoint with the new york state police – that’s probably our biggest step that we take in terms of curbing aggressive driving, pedestrian strikes, traffic fatalities,” vogel said. he also speaks at public events to raise awareness and advise people about traffic safety measures.
likewise, buffalo police officials say they engage with the public, urging safety and caution, said capt. marcus rogowski and lt. tim o’rourke. simple messages that pedestrians start being taught as children – waiting at the signal before crossing, using crosswalks, wearing lighter, more reflective colors – never stop being important, they said.
but pedestrians are often not to blame. statistics show that speeding, impaired driving and distracted driving are also common factors.
“the increase in speeding since the pandemic, as well as the increased distraction of our electronic devices, those two things are (a) definite cause behind almost every accident that we have,” said sgt. amy parisi of the erie county sheriff’s office
parisi said that patrol officers have started focusing on areas with more pedestrian traffic, especially schools.
“transit road has been where some of our fatals have been,” she said. “that has been one of our focuses, in past years, with that (gtsc) grant to write tickets for speeding in order to reduce accidents. so that stays on the radar as we focus on where we see those accidents, and we use that grant money to read the tickets in those areas.”
increased street lighting, better crosswalks and better designed infrastructure are some other important factors. while three-quarters of the pedestrian fatalities in 2021 were at night, more than half of those occurred in places that had artificial lighting, snider said.
but the only real hope for reversing the trend involves focusing on every possible factor, snider said.
“these are more than numbers. these are lives,” snider said. “these ripple effects of grief from even just one pedestrian death are fairly incomprehensible, and then you multiply that by 7,500. pretty mind-boggling.”
reach debadrita (deb) at dsur@buffnews.com.
###
ellsworth-b-21-expansion-getting-mixed-support-in-pierre: 
ellsworth b-21 expansion getting mixed support in pierre
lawmakers from western south dakota argued that financial support is needed for the airport projects to accommodate the b-21 program and to ensure the long-range viability of the base
box elder, s.d. — the 2024 south dakota legislature considered two spending measures for construction projects aimed at preparing for an influx of military personnel and civilians arriving with the launch of the new b-21 raider bomber program at ellsworth air force base.
the state funds were proposed in one bill to help build a new elementary school to accommodate rapid student population growth in box elder and through another measure that would include the rapid city regional airport in a funding package to aid expansion of airports across the state.
in this tight budget year, lawmakers rejected the plan to spend up to $15 million to help pay for a new $60 million elementary school in the douglas school district, which serves many families that live and work in and around the base.
but as the 2024 legislative session winds down, legislators are still considering a proposal to spend up to $90 million in state funds to offset costs of expansion projects at municipal airports across the state. at the rapid city regional airport, some of it could help pay for $220 million in planned improvements and expansions to prepare for expected large increases in passengers and flights due to the launch of the b-21 program at nearby ellsworth.
ellsworth was officially chosen in june 2021 as the main base of operations and training location for the air force's new b-21 raider bomber, a $700 million long-range stealth jet with nuclear capabilities that is intended to replace the b-1b lancer bomber that has been based at ellsworth for years.
advertisement
in pitching the spending packages, lawmakers from western south dakota argued that state financial support is needed for the school and airport projects to accommodate the b-21 program and to ensure the long-range viability of the base that was nearly closed by the federal government during the base realignment and closure process in 2005-2006.
sen. helene duhamel, r-rapid city, sponsored senate bill 204 to help fund the proposed elementary school, starting at a $15 million request and then reducing the ask to $5 million after debate. duhamel reminded members of the senate education committee of the harrowing process south dakota leaders went through in trying to keep ellsworth off the final brac list in 2006. "this did not happen by accident," duhamel testified. "it was hard work, investment with an eye on the future and a willingness to help when needed. it's time to help again.”
ellsworth has obtained greater stability by aggressively seeking new and expanded roles within the air force, landguth said. examples include the addition of the air force financial services center at ellsworth in 2007, adding the command and control mission for the mq-9 reaper drone program to the base in 2010 and the 2015 opening of the 35,000-square-mile powder river training complex airspace.
col. derek oakley, commander of the 28th bomb wing at ellsworth, said the air force will embark on nearly three dozen individual construction projects on the base at an estimated cost of $1.5 billion.
the b-21 program will add more than 4,000 new military personnel, families and civilian workers to the base over the next 20 years, bringing the total base population to nearly 12,000 people, oakley said.
the air force projected in its b-21 economic impact statement that development of the new bomber program at ellsworth will create nearly 600 local jobs and almost $24 million in local economic impact. once the bombers arrive, some state officials estimate the program will create an annual benefit of $480 million to the state.
as on-base preparations take off, signs of growth are visible throughout box elder. new houses and apartments are being rapidly constructed, and the town of 12,000 a few miles east of rapid city has several new businesses already built or in progress.
oakley stressed the importance of ensuring that existing airmen and airwomen, as well as the new arrivals, are not overworked or face hardships outside their work lives.
advertisement
"it's a lot to put on their backs for airmen right now," oakley told news watch in an interview. "our biggest challenge is keeping them engaged and not overworking them."
many of those new military personnel have young children, and douglas schools will have an estimated enrollment increase of 1,500 in the next 15 years, said superintendent kevin case.
the district has already spent $6.2 million on planning for the new elementary school, he said. the federal government is expected to pay about $40 million of the $60 total construction cost.
but morgan gruebele of the state bureau of finance and management told senators it would be unfair to provide extra state money to douglas schools when other districts across the state are not receiving it.
the senate education committee passed the bill on a 5-2 vote, but the joint appropriations committee rejected it 11-7 vote.
as of feb. 28, the proposal to use state funding to expedite expansion of airports statewide still had life in the legislature.
airport officials told lawmakers the state money is needed because funding from the federal aviation administration has been stagnant.
the sioux falls airport authority in 2022 approved a $170 million, two-phase plan to add eight new gates to the airport as well as other improvements, including a concourse expansion.
advertisement
the rapid city regional airport in late 2023 embarked on a three-phase expansion effort estimated to cost $220 million over the next few years, according to megan johnson, spokeswoman for the airport. "when we speak with airlines, we tell them, 'hey, we have ellsworth air force base and they're bringing in these new jets,'" she said.
advertisement
advertisement
###
i-lost-son-aggressive-brain-32218915: 
louise fox, 49, from barton-le-clay in bedfordshire, lost her son george at the age of 13 after he was diagnosed with an aggressive brain tumour.
she grew close to other mums in the same position and a group of them decided to skydive in memory of their children. they raised thousands for brain cancer charity tessa jowell foundation and have plans for another challenge this year.
"george was my middle child. he was bright, intelligent and cheeky and the healthiest of my three children then, out of the blue, in april 2021 he started complaining of headaches. the doctor and optician said they were just migraines but a week later he vomited and alarm bells started ringing.
we rushed straight to a&e where they did neurological checks but the headache pattern continued for weeks. i put my trust in the doctor who told me point-blank, 'this isn’t a brain tumour.' a few weeks later george and i headed into his scan and we never made it back home.
they found a 6cm brain tumour and blue-lighted george to addenbrooke’s hospital, cambridge. our naivety probably saved us at that point. george was as sweet and loving as always. pushing our beds together on the ward, he tried to make it a special time.
in may, george went in for his 10-hour surgery – we still didn’t know what we were dealing with – but afterwards they said they had removed 99% of it. we felt so positive.
'my world imploded'
three days later and george was home but when we went back for the results, our world changed forever. they explained
that he had a glioblastoma for which there was no cure. they advised us not to go looking for a cure and to enjoy our next
12 to 15 months that we had left with him.
i collapsed in the room – my world imploded. we refused to tell george he had an incurable brain tumour. we couldn’t tell him he was dying. so we sat at burger king afterwards watching our little boy eat his lunch with his paper crown on, our hearts shattered into pieces. within a month, his tumour had grown back to full size.
george went through radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and then immunotherapy in germany. we watched our boy have seizures and there wasn’t even a 1% chance of survival. nearly 12 months later the same doctor who told us it definitely "wasn’t a brain tumour" was the same one who signed his death certificate.
when you’re on this journey you turn to parents in support groups – you hope to find someone with a way to help prolong your child’s life for long enough until a cure is found. you just want to save your child.
i set up a facebook group called forever mums of brain tumour angels, for mums who had lost children to a brain tumour.
there’s about 60 who want to raise awareness. we needed something that felt like a challenge – we were all terrified of heights so this felt right. the skydive was so emotional. we all had t-shirts with our children on and when the second plane came down, there was a double rainbow.
we’re planning earth, wind and fire next. for earth we’re climbing snowdonia in may, for wind we’re going to be wing walking and for fire we’re going to walk on hot coals. i’d encourage any mum who has been through what i have to join us – there’s strength in numbers. we have been through the ultimate pain but we have a responsibility. it powers us through – our children’s lives can’t be in vain.
visit justgiving.com/page/angelmums for more details
###
divisions-appear-in-the-opposition-to-the-opposition-party-levica-after-struggles-to-mobilize-support-for-its-presidential-candidate: 
the populist levica party was able to capitalize on public anger over the imposed prespa treaty, to win two seats in the parliament in the 2020 elections – which is a rare feat for small parties not aligned with vmro-dpmne or sdsm.
using the often dramatic speeches and stunts from its two representatives, dimitar apasiev and borislav krmov, the party was hoping to improve this result, and win even a dozen seats at the coming general election. but it seems to have fizzed out.
it’s presidential candidate, leftist peace activist professor biljana vankovska, struggled for days to collect the 10,000 signatures she needs to enter the race. levica was expecting to accomplish this on the first day, counting on support in skopje’s urban aerodrom district and in apasiev’s hometown of veles.
but the difficulties they faced in collecting signatures came to the surface, particularly in aerodrom, and now threaten to divide the party. a prominent local council member, darko maslarkovski, announced that he is leaving the party. “we face byzantine games, deliberate destruction of the party, distancing of the hard working, honest and feisty activists, and inclusion of spineless, interest driven people. all who showed potential, worked hard and dedicated themselves to the party are being racinized”, maslarkovski said, referring to socialist poet and icon koco racin, killed in a “friendly fire” incident during world war two by a fellow partisan.
the rapper was immediately denounced by levica leadership. member of parliament krmov said that maslarkovski was removed from the party, as were the president of the karpos municipal council branko ristov, and another karpos council member. krmov referred to the expelled members as “taking out the trash”.
these disciplinary moves were undertaken to prevent infiltration by structures coordinated by dpmne (vmro) who are sabotaging the collection of signatures and want to target and contaminate weak links in our membership. these incompeted cadres, who proved not up to the task, will be replaced with new, hard working, honest and loyal workers. three crooked ones are leaving, 300 honest ones will come!, levica said in a statement.
levica was part of the sdsm led colored revolution, which installed zoran zaev as prime minister and went on to impose the name change on macedonia. apasiev, a roman law university professor, was even hired as adviser to now disgraced special prosecutor katica janeva, who churned out criminal charges against vmro officials that sdsm wanted removed from politics. but after a while, levica took on a different role, declared that they are against the name change, or macedonia’s nato membership, and began to accuse sdsm of corruption and betraying macedonia’s national interests, often using rhetoric from the times of the french revolution. its more recent stunts included visiting the grave of albanian communist dictator enver hoxha, in an attempt to appeal to albanian leftists.
but in this campaign, the party would often try to edge out vmro-dpmne in the fight for the votes of macedonians angry at the national humiliations, leading many in vmro to warn that levica are coordinating their actions with sdsm and acting as “opposition to the opposition”. levica is also a declared pro-russian party, which again helps sdsm and their partner dui develop talking points about their alleged pro-european stance against the “russian threat” in macedonia, in which sdsm and dui try to lump vmro with levica. more recently, the party was seen as coordinating its activities with the mayor of karpos stevco jakimovski, and skopje mayor danela arsovska, who are also trying to run in the elections on platforms accusing vmro-dpmne in ways designed to peel voters from the by far largest opposition party that is the clearly dominant over sdsm in the polls. jakimovski is also running for president, and like vankovska, is struggling to collect the 10,000 signatures he needs, indicating that the opposition vote is coalescing around vmro and will not about to miss an opportunity to punish sdsm by voting for the opposition group that has the by far best opportunity to defeat sdsm.
in fact, sdsm is facing a division of its own. angry with the concessions sdsm is making to bulgaria, a large faction centered around the former sdsm stronghold of kumanovo split from the party. led by maksim dimitrievski, this znam party had no problem to collect signatures for dimitrievski’s presidential run, and threatens to fragment the sdsm vote to a greater degree than than the damage sdsm hopes levica will inflict on vmro.
vmro-dpmne and sdsm will begin collecting signatures on sunday, after their candidates are formally approved by the party institutions. in their case, the question is not whether the task of collecting 10,000 signatures will be accomplished on the first day, but by how much will they surpass the required number – this will be the gauge of enthusiasm in the two largest parties, who can also nominate presidential candidates with 30 votes in parliament, but always choose to flex their muscles and collect signatures as well.
###
article67903766.ece: 
guwahati
the assam police have strengthened the security of chief minister himanta biswa sarma following a threat from a banned khalistani outfit.
a caller claiming to be the supporter of pro-khalistan leader amritpal singh, lodged in eastern assam’s dibrugarh central jail, alleged that the latter was being tortured in captivity along with his nine associates.
the caller said the chief minister would face the consequences if the 10 sikhs, who are on a hunger strike, die in jail.
mr. singh was arrested by punjab police under the national security act in april 2023 and transported to assam on a special flight. the other nine, also booked under nsa, were arrested and sent to the same jail later.
“...amritpal singh and his associates are on a hunger strike in dibrugarh jail. order the shifting of amritpal and his associates to amritsar jail or face the consequences. sikhs for justice are filing a complaint in the united nations against india...,” the caller said.
“if any of the singhs in dibrugarh jail attains shahidi (martyrdom), cm sarma, you will face the consequences. and pro-khalistan sikhs take their enemies to the grave. this message is from gurpatwant singh pannun, general counsel of sikhs for justice,” the caller said.
the chief minister brushed the threat aside but assam’s director-general of police, gyanendra pratap singh said his force was taking it seriously.
“we have strengthened the security after this threat came to our notice. we have assessed the risks and have written to all the dgps and central agencies to provide the chief minister with security as per the threat since he travels extensively,” the dgp said.
“pannun lives in the u.s. and is associated with sikhs for justice, which is a designated terrorist organisation in india. we are taking the threat seriously,” he added.
on february 17, the staff of dibrugarh jail detected a major security breach in the nsa cell, where mr. singh is lodged along with nine of his associates.
the jail staff recovered a smartphone with sim, a keypad phone, a tv remote with a keyboard, a spy cam pen, pen drives, bluetooth headphones, speakers, and a smartwatch during a search.
###
louisiana-man-allegedly-killed-toddler-shot-self-distraught-elder-sons-murder-police-say: 
authorities in a new orleans suburb say a man who was distraught over the recent slaying of his 18-year-old son shot his 3-year-old son to death and then shot himself.
kenner police chief keith conley said the child was dead when police officers arrived at the house where the shooting occurred wednesday night. the father was found unconscious outside the house with a gunshot wound. he remained "unresponsive" as of thursday morning, conley told reporters.
pa authorities reveal causes of death for victims of murder-suicide arson incident
conley said police were told that the father, identified by news outlets as melvin mcclinton sr., 39, was already suffering emotional problems following the feb. 5 shooting death of his older son, melvin mcclinton jr. "his family did indicate that his emotional issues and his anger issues were coming forward a lot more aggressive since that incident," he said.
wednesday night's shooting followed an altercation with the 3-year-old's mother.
"there was a domestic disturbance over the father's disciplining of the child," conley said. "we think that might have triggered him to escalate into that act of violence."
click here to get the fox news app
news outlets report that a 19-year-old suspect was arrested soon after the death of melvin mcclinton jr. the suspect faces a first-degree murder charge.
###
22869428.html: 
kimberly-clark, energy partners sign ppa for one of cape town's largest rooftop solar systems
- wall st drops with tech-related shares, investors assess rate outlook
- adobe reports weaker guidance on key revenue metric for q2; shares slump
- stocks set for weekly fall, dollar climbs as fed rate cut expected
- barclays explains why s&p 500 keeps rallying despite hot cpi, ppi data
- oil prices dip, but set for weekly gain of over 3%
epping manufacturing facility will be home to new 2.2mw system
northampton, ma / accesswire / march 1, 2024 / kimberly-clark and integrated energy solutions company, energy partners (ep), have signed a long-term power purchase agreement (ppa) to install one of the largest rooftop solar photovoltaic (pv) systems in cape town, south africa.
according to the terms of the agreement, ep will install a 2.2mw rooftop system at kimberly clark's epping manufacturing site of well-known brands huggies� and kotex®.
once the project is completed, the rooftop system at epping facility will allow an annual energy production of 3,478 mwh per year which will save over 3,130 tonnes of co2 emissions each year[1], equivalent to powering 1,030 median residential homes in the country every year[2]
collaboration
charl du plessis, general manager of ep power, confirms that the design of the system was developed in close collaboration with kimberly-clark's local and international engineers and project managers to ensure compliance with regulatory and design specifications.
"the new rooftop solar photovoltaic (pv) systems will enhance kimberly-clark's capacity to manage electricity consumption, whilst also enabling them to substantially increase their renewables penetration. this is especially exciting to us, and we are proud to be part of the kimberly-clark journey to meeting their 2030 sustainability goals," says du plessis.
steven hayes, general manager of kimberly-clark sub-saharan africa says, "we are committed to reducing our environmental footprint and this project will contribute toward helping us meet our 2030 goal to reduce total emissions by 50% compared to 2015 globally. the installation of this rooftop solar photovoltaic system and partnership with energy partners is a significant step toward achieving our renewable energy targets, and we are proud to be part of the solution in creating a more sustainable future for south africa."
[1] emission factor in 2023 from iea and in sofi = 0.9 kg/kwh
view additional multimedia and more esg storytelling from kimberly-clark corporation on 3blmedia.com.
contact info:
spokesperson: kimberly-clark corporation
website: https://www.3blmedia.com/profiles/kimberly-clark-corporation
email: [email protected]
source: kimberly-clark corporation
view the original press release on accesswire.com
serious news for serious traders! try streetinsider.com premium free!
you may also be interested in
- avila energy corporation to close further tranches of its private placement offering of up to $3,000,000
- mogo collegiate open concludes with over 500 participants
- lincoln gold mining inc. provides acquisition update and prepares to announce private placement
create e-mail alert related categoriesaccesswire, press releases
sign up for streetinsider free!
receive full access to all new and archived articles, unlimited portfolio tracking, e-mail alerts, custom newswires and rss feeds - and more!
###
sedalia-police-reports-for-march-1-2023-2: 
sedalia police reports for march 1, 2023
this article is compiled from the sedalia police department crime reports.
early friday morning, officers conducted a traffic stop at the intersection of west broadway boulevard and south limit avenue. the driver was found to have a revoked driver’s license. rosalio cervantes galvan, 52, of sedalia, was arrested for driving while suspended. galvan was booked and released.
thursday evening, officers made contact with a subject in the police station lobby. their information was checked with dispatch, and it was confirmed she had two failure to appear warrants for her arrest. one was issued by pettis county in january 2024, with the citation filed in october of 2023 for driving while suspended. the other was issued by pettis county in february after she was cited in december for another charge of driving while suspended. kourteney jo-anna parker, 28, of sedalia, turned herself in on her two warrants. parker was arrested and transported to the pettis county jail, where she was booked, pending a total cash only bond of $310.00.
wednesday morning, officers were dispatched to the 500 block of south lafayette avenue in reference to an identity theft/fraud report. tammie smith stated someone used her identity to sign her up for health insurance.
sedalia police located a subject at the fav trip*, 216 west broadway boulevard, who had an active warrant for his arrest. george edward bucker sr., 60, was arrested for his probation violation warrant on original charges of felony possession of a controlled substance. buckner had been ordered to five years’ probation in may of 2023, and violated his probation in january of 2024. bucker was transported to the pettis county jail to be booked on his warrant.
wednesday afternoon, officers were dispatched to the 400 block of east 7th street in reference to a theft report. phillip schafer reported he had been giving someone money for rent, and that person was not giving it all to the landlord as they were supposed to be.
on the morning of february 29th, officers conducted a subject check in the lobby of the police department. the subject was found to have two active pettis county warrants for his arrest on original charges of animal at large. wesley leroy ditzfeld, 55, of sedalia, was placed under arrest. ditzfeld was booked in with a total bond of $120 cash only.
thursday night, a traffic stop was conducted in the 2200 block of clinton road. in the course of the stop, it was determined the driver had two active probation violation warrants for her arrest on two separate charges of felony possession of a controlled substance. charity rachae dixon, 26, of sedalia, was arrested and transported to the pettis county jail. dixon was booked in, pending a total cash or surety bond of $50,000.
thursday morning, officers were dispatched to the woods’ grocery store, 701 east broadway boulevard. a couple stole several plants from the store.
*the officer refers to the establishment as “fav trip” in the narrative of the report. the owner of the establishment has asked ksis to refer to the business as “phillips 66”.
look: do you know these 50 famous acronyms?
gallery credit: rachel cavanaugh
###
24156153.man-murdered-girlfriend-three-relatives-sacrifice-jailed-life: 
a cannabis abuser who claimed he stabbed his girlfriend and three of her family members as a “sacrifice” has been jailed for life with a minimum term of 46 years for their murders.
joshua jacques, 29, was fuelled by drugs and alcohol when he attacked samantha drummonds and her family with a knife in their home in delaford road, bermondsey, south london, early on april 25 2022, the old bailey heard.
police found the bodies of ms drummonds, 27, her mother tanysha ofori-akuffo, 45, grandmother dolet hill, 64, and ms hill’s partner, denton burke, 58, after being alerted to a disturbance by a neighbour.
officers found mr burke’s body at the foot of the stairs and the three women “heaped together” in the kitchen.
mr justice bryan said jacques had committed the “horrific catalogue of murders” after abusing skunk cannabis.
addressing jacques in the dock, mr justice bryan said he had inflicted the murders “in the most brutal of circumstances on three generations of the same family” after increasing his daily intake of skunk cannabis.
he said that jacques’ offending had been contributed to by cannabis abuse, and that he was “well aware” of the impact of it on his mental health.
he added: “it is a salutary lesson to all those who peddle the myth that cannabis is not a dangerous drug.
“it is, and its deleterious effect on mental health and its potential to cause psychosis is well established.”
the court heard that jacques took 3g of skunk cannabis a day and refused to consider cutting down, saying he would carry on smoking marijuana “even if it killed” him.
jacques appeared emotionless as he was sentenced.
a cry of “murderer” could be heard from the public gallery as he was sent down.
at the scene, armed officers discovered jacques naked and lying in the upstairs bathroom in a praying position, screaming “allah, take me!”, “kill me now”, “get rid of me”, and “god please forgive me”.
later, at lewisham hospital, jacques said: “i ain’t even in the wrong, i did them for sacrifice”, and also warned: “i will do something stupid again.”
paul raudnitz kc, mitigating for jacques at the sentencing hearing, said the attack was not pre-meditated.
he also read out an apology from his client to the victims’ families – the first time that jacques has expressed remorse for his actions.
“i would like to say to the family of the deceased, i am truly and sincerely sorry for all of the anguish, pain and heartache i have caused,” jacques wrote.
he added: “i have discussed it with myself and i cannot believe that i am the cause of this monstrosity.”
in a victim impact statement, tracey-ann henry, the daughter of ms hill and the sister of ms ofori-akuffo, said her mother had only just beaten cancer before she was murdered.
she said her mother had her last radiotherapy session the day before she was stabbed to death.
ms henry, who is the aunt of ms drummonds, said: “how could someone kill four people in one night?
“it is like something from a horror movie.”
danny ofori-akuffo, the husband of tanysha, said in his impact statement that he had “cried like a child” following the incident.
“i am a proud man and i have cried like a child in front of so many people,” he said.
he described his horror at having to identify his wife’s body.
“i remember wailing out in pain,” he said.
“my heart had shattered into pieces.”
jacques admitted manslaughter but denied murder on the basis that he was mentally unwell at the time.
an old bailey jury deliberated for two hours to find jacques, from minard road, lewisham, south-east london, guilty of four counts of murder.
comments: our rules
we want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. the ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
please report any comments that break our rules.read the rules here
comments are closed on this article
###
wisconsin-supreme-court-declines-to-hear-congressional-maps-challenge: 
17:09
brief
briefs
wisconsin supreme court declines to hear congressional maps challenge
wisconsin supreme court chambers. (baylor spears | wisconsin examiner)
the wisconsin supreme court declined to hear a case challenging the state’s congressional maps on friday, meaning that the current maps will remain the maps for the 2024 congressional elections.
the case was filed by a group of democratic voters in january — shortly after the court’s decision in december 2023 to throw out the state’s legislative maps, which led to new maps being passed by the republican-led legislature and signed by democratic gov. tony evers last month. the group that filed the case argued that the court’s decision to overturn the legislative maps should also apply to the state’s eight congressional districts.
the justices did not explain why they wouldn’t hear the case in their order.
conservative justice rebecca bradley said in a concurring opinion, which chief justice annette ziegler joined, that it wasn’t surprising that the motion asking them to overturn the congressional maps came before them.
bradley said that the clarke v. wisconsin elections commission state legislature redistricting case “incentivizes litigants to bring politically divisive cases to this court regardless of their legal merit. while the court rightfully denies this motion, it likely won’t be long until the new majority flexes its political power again to advance a partisan agenda despite the damage inflicted on the independence and integrity of the court.”
the current congressional maps were proposed by gov. tony evers in 2021, following a decision by the state supreme courts that instructed a “least change” approach to drawing maps, meaning any changes needed to be minimal compared to the maps drawn by republicans in 2011. those maps were chosen by the state supreme court for use in the 2022 elections. the lawsuit argued that the “least change” principle continued partisan unfairness that republicans introduced to the maps in 2011.
justice janet protasiewicz, who joined the court in august 2023, did not participate in the case and wrote in a decision friday that was because she was not a member of the court when the 2021 case was decided.
democrats, including evers and u.s. rep. mark pocan, had supported the lawsuit, agreeing that the maps should be reviewed based on the “least change” approach.
get the morning headlines delivered to your inbox
our stories may be republished online or in print under creative commons license cc by-nc-nd 4.0. we ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our web site. ap and getty images may not be republished. please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics.
###
f143b1af-d1b2-48af-822a-3b02719e261d: 
investigators are searching for a number of armed offenders as a man is being treated for a gunshot wound in hospital following a suspected double shooting in melbourne's north overnight.
police believe five men were inside a car at charles mutton reserve just off tyrell street, when their vehicle was rammed by another car shortly after 6pm in fawkner.
several men inside the second car are believed to have got out and fired a number of shots at the car, according to detectives.
the second car then fled the scene.
a 19-year-old clifton hill man self-presented to hospital a short time later with a gunshot wound to the upper body.
he remains in hospital with non-life threatening injuries.
police said they were investigating whether a second person was shot during the incident.
the circumstance surrounding the shooting are still being determined, but detectives believe the attack was targeted.
detectives are keen to speak to anyone in the area who witnessed the incident or may have cctv or dashcam footage.
###
death-row-inmate-exonerated-30-years-after-1994-arson-murder-in-philadelphia: 
(philadelphia) — a philadelphia man who was convicted and sentenced to death in connection with the 1994 arson murder of a woman is now exonerated 30 years later, the district attorney’s office announced.
on wednesday, daniel gwynn, 54, was exonerated and released from state prison in pennsylvania after the da’s office said they found flaws in the 1994 first-degree murder investigation.
“the exoneration of daniel gwynn today frees a man who is likely innocent,” philadelphia district attorney larry krasner said in a press release. “sadly, it also exemplifies an era of inexact and, at times corrupt, policing and prosecution that has broken trust with our communities to this day.”
on november 20, 1994, an unhoused woman named marsha smith was killed after a fire broke out in a vacant building on the 4500 block of chestnut street in west philadelphia, according to the press release.
the da’s office said smith, gwynn and three other individuals were squatting in the vacant building at the time of the fire.
a jury trial relied on faulty testimony from two witnesses and a confession from gwynn, which he recounted and was found inconsistent with how the fire started, according to the release.
the da’s office also said gwynn was never read his miranda rights.
information about an alternate suspect — who was identified by witnesses to police — was never turned over to gwynn or presented during his prosecution, which violated his constitutional rights, according to the release.
the da’s office says witnesses identified gwynn to police as “rick” from photo arrays used in a separate murder investigation that took place in the same building three days before the fire.
the photo arrays in the police files did not include gwynn’s photo and were never turned over to his defense counsel, according to the release.
the witnesses who testified in the first murder investigation were threatened by the defendant before the fire broke out, which the da’s office deemed “critical” information.
“critically, the defendant in the other murder had threatened to have his associates kill the witnesses if they cooperated against him in the other trial,” the da’s office said.
this information was never disclosed to the defense during gwynn’s prosecution, according to the release.
the defendant in the other case was convicted of first-degree murder and sentenced to life in prison, which he is currently serving, the da’s office said.
“the wrongful conviction of daniel gwynn, and his unjust imprisonment for nearly three decades, is a cautionary tale of tunnel vision in policing and prosecution,” david napiorski, assistant supervisor of federal litigation said in the release. “not only were mr. gwynn’s rights violated at trial, but his conviction and sentence to death row likely allowed the person actually responsible to escape accountability.”
napiorski apologized to marsha smith’s family “for the retraumatization they have likely experienced.”
“they were deprived of justice in 1994 and are deserving of justice now,” napiorski said.
during his time in prison, gwynn used painting as an outlet “to heal and survive” and shared his work via the website, art for justice, which exhibits prisoners’ artwork.
“painting has been my therapy, a form of meditation that helps me work through my issues,” gwynn wrote alongside his paintings.
gwynn said art allowed him to not only work on himself but also his legal case.
“my transformation came about after i was forced to sit still and take a real hard look at myself,” gwynn wrote. “after i worked through the garbage in my head, i finally woke up and began to work on myself and my case.”
copyright © 2024, abc audio. all rights reserved.
###
baltimore-schools-david-smith-lawsuit: 
baltimore city schools seeks to scrutinize a media owner, a local tv station and a limited liability company in its defense against a sweeping civil lawsuit.
david smith, the executive chairman of sinclair broadcasting group who recently purchased the baltimore sun, has been subpoenaed to testify about his involvement in the taxpayer suit against baltimore city and its school system. sinclair broadcasting group and the limited liability company smith’s associated with, election law integrity, were named as interested parties in the case after plaintiff jovani patterson revealed that the entity was paying his legal bills.
smith’s deposition was originally scheduled for monday, according to court documents, but that’s likely to change, a city schools spokesperson said.
patterson and his wife brought the civil lawsuit in january 2022, claiming the district defrauded taxpayers by failing to educate its students, inaccurately reporting student enrollment and not enforcing truancy rules. the pattersons, who live in west baltimore and whose child attended a city public school before transferring to a baltimore county private school, filed a taxpayer suit in baltimore circuit court.
this suit seeks to have the court impose oversight on the school system.
city attorneys tried to dismiss the case in 2022, arguing students’ education shouldn’t be regulated through litigation that seeks to hold the school system to an undefined standard. patterson’s complaint is “ill-intentioned and frivolous,” city attorneys wrote, and “focuses on every catchy headline published by fox 45 in the past several years that is critical of [city schools].”
in response to issues raised by the complaint, the school district said in court documents that it “had identified through its own protocols limited instances of misconduct undertaken by a limited number of employees.”
a judge allowed the case to move forward.
thomas & libowitz, the firm representing patterson, also was called to testify about their involvement. city attorneys requested documents and records of communication that smith, election law integrity and the law firm have had with each other and sinclair, which owns fox 45. patterson is a frequent guest on fox 45 newscasts, which has covered the case. patterson’s complaint includes fox 45 articles about the school system to support his claims.
margaret argent, an attorney at thomas & libowitz who represents patterson, objected to the request.
“the document request do not even make mention of the specific facts that will be issue at trial,” she wrote. bcpss “is concerned about the fact that the plaintiff’s legal fees are being paid by a third party.”
patterson and smith, who lives in baltimore county, have been publicly linked to several past political initiatives. but smith’s involvement in the bcpss lawsuit was not reported until patterson was deposed in january, more than two years after the suit was filed. patterson told school attorneys he had several meetings with smith at sinclair’s headquarters in hunt valley and thomas & libowitz’s baltimore office before hiring the firm and filing the suit in 2022. thomas & libowitz has previously represented smith and sinclair.
“david smith’s apparent and previously undisclosed hands-on involvement in the patterson litigation leads to many questions, notably the authentic intent of the litigation,” sherry christian, a city schools spokesperson, said in a statement. “the best way for the public to know the truth is for mr. smith and fox 45 to do what the tv station often seems to demand — be transparent.”
smith did not respond to requests for comment through a spokesperson. thomas & libowitz did not respond to a request for comment.
attorneys for smith and election law integrity objected to the subpoenas, calling them overly burdensome and unrelated to enrollment, truancy and other issues of the case. a judge has yet to rule on the objections.
taxpayer lawsuits are brought by citizens living in a jurisdiction challenging that the government misused their money. however, they can be considered as activist lawsuits aimed at publicizing a particular legal issue, said cary hansel, a baltimore civil rights attorney.
“activist lawsuits are not always focused on success in the courtroom but sometimes filed for the purpose of shining a light on an issue in the most noble cases, or harassing an opponent in the rare unfortunate case,” hansel said.
in his january deposition, patterson testified that he hadn’t paid any legal fees in the case. rather, election law integrity, in which smith is a “representative,” has been paying thomas & libowitz’s legal fees, argent said.
bcpss subpoenaed smith and election law integrity nine days after patterson’s deposition. an attorney at thomas & libowitz and the firm itself are listed as the resident agents of election law integrity.
patterson testified that he was introduced to smith through julian baron, a producer at sinclair, when patterson was running as a republican for baltimore city council president in 2020. the three men met at sinclair’s headquarters on at least three occasions before patterson said he decided in late 2021 to sue the city and its schools.
smith joined patterson and his wife for two meetings with attorneys before patterson signed a retainer agreement with thomas & libowitz, patterson said.
in 2022, patterson and smith joined forces on a successful ballot initiative that created term limits for baltimore’s mayor, comptroller and city council.
patterson chairs the political action committee people for elected accountability and civic engagement, a group that petitioned to put the issue of term limits on city ballots. smith provided money to finance the effort, as well as an unsuccessful attempt to ask voters to establish recall elections. state records show smith gave $560,000 to the committee in 2022. term limits were overwhelmingly approved by voters that same year.
smith and patterson are teaming up once again ahead of the 2024 election, this time to petition for a ballot question that would cut the size of the baltimore city council in half. public records show smith gave the committee $340,000 last year. the group already has submitted more than 25,000 signatures to the board of elections, more than what’s required to place the question a place on the november ballot.
baltimore sun reporter emily opilo contributed to this article.
###
editor-of-top-independent-russian-newspaper-fined-for-allegedly-discrediting-military: 
the editor-in-chief of the renowned russian independent newspaper novaya gazeta was detained in moscow on thursday and later fined after being accused of discrediting russia's armed forces, the newspaper said.
sergei sokolov was detained by officers from russia's center for combating extremism (center e), and fined 30,000 rubles (usd 329) in a hearing at a moscow court later on thursday, novaya gazeta said.
it said the charges — which are “administrative” and are usually punishable by a fine or a short prison sentence — are related to material posted on the outlet's telegram channel. it was found in an examination by the authorities to contain “linguistic and psychological signs of verbally discrediting the actions of power structures," the paper said.
advertisement
the media watchdog reporters without borders, or rsf, said on x, formerly known as twitter, that it “protests against this arrest which further testifies to the violence of censorship in russia.” sokolov took the leadership of novaya gazeta's newsroom in september 2023 after the previous longtime editor-in-chief, nobel peace prize laureate dmitry muratov, was named a “foreign agent” by russian authorities.
in september 2022, a moscow court revoked the license of novaya gazeta, which has been critical of the kremlin for years, as part of the authorities' continuing crackdown on dissent. days after russian president vladimir putin sent troops into ukraine just over two years ago, the kremlin-controlled parliament approved legislation that outlawed disparagement of the russian military or the spread of “false information” about the country's invasion of ukraine.
advertisement
dozens of russian independent media outlets were banned as a result, while others said they were halting any reporting related to ukraine. novaya gazeta announced in march 2022 that it was suspending its operations for the duration of the war in ukraine. but novaya gazeta's staff who moved abroad launched a new project, novaya gazeta europe, that has been strongly critical of the invasion of russia's neighbour.
###
22866014.html: 
commerce resources announces appointment of patrik schmidt as vice president of exploration
- wall st drops with tech-related shares, investors assess rate outlook
- adobe reports weaker guidance on key revenue metric for q2; shares slump
- stocks set for weekly fall, dollar climbs as fed rate cut expected
- barclays explains why s&p 500 keeps rallying despite hot cpi, ppi data
- oil prices dip, but set for weekly gain of over 3%
get alerts d7h0 hot sheet
join si premium – free
vancouver, bc / accesswire / march 1, 2024 / commerce resources corp. (tsx.v:cce)(fse:d7h0)(otcqx:cmrzf) (the "company" or "commerce") is pleased to announce the appointment of patrik schmidt as its new vice president of exploration effective march 1, 2024. jody dahrouge will be stepping down as vice president of exploration; however, will remain as a director of the company. mr. dahrouge continues to play a critical and active role with the company as director.
patrik schmidt, principal at dahrouge geological consulting ltd., is a professional geologist (m.sc., p.geo.) and a member of the ordre des g�ologues du québec (ogq), and the professional geoscientists of ontario (pgo). with over 10 years' experience, mr. schmidt has worked as project manager on multiple projects and commodities covering various deposit types, with a particular focus on rare earth elements (rees), rare metals (li, ta, nb, etc.), and carbonatite complexes. over his career he has developed a versatile skill set which spans grassroots mineral exploration, mineralogy and geochemistry, to high-level project management of multi-rig drill exploration programs with significant success.
mr. schmidt has played a key role in the discovery of the ashram rare earth element and fluorspar deposit, the mallard prospect (nb-ta-phosphate), and the miranna prospects (nb-ta-phosphate) held by the company. additionally, as a consultant geologist, mr. schmidt led the team that discovered the cap carbonatite in b.c., and more recently has been a key figure in the discovery and exploration of the cv lithium trend where numerous lithium pegmatites have been discovered, including the cv5 spodumene pegmatite in which patrik has been instrumental to its advancement.
chris grove, president and ceo of the company commented, "we are thrilled to have patrik join our executive team here at commerce. patrik has been involved as a consultant to the company as early as 2008 and he is a natural fit as we build out our executive team."
darren l. smith, m.sc., p.geo., senior technical advisor rare earths and niobium to the company comments, "since 2008 i have worked closely with patrik on numerous projects covering a plethora of commodities and deposit types. in addition to his strong understanding of various commodities and deposit styles, his skill set is finely tuned to rees and rare metals. he has been a key asset in drill targeting and surface exploration of the eldor property to date and so it is with great pleasure to formalize his involvement."
about the ashram deposit
the ashram deposit ranks as one of the largest ree (and fluorspar) deposits globally, consisting of a monazite dominated, single mineralized body outcropping at surface, and has a footprint approximately 700 m along strike, over 300 m across, and 600 m deep, remaining open in several directions. the deposit hosts a measured resource of 1.6 million tonnes (mt) at 1.77% rare earth oxide (reo) and 3.8% f, an indicated resource of 27.7 mt at 1.90% reo and 2.9% f, and an inferred resource of 219.8 mt at 1.88% reo and 2.2% f, at a cut-off grade of 1.25% reo (effective date july 5th, 2012). note, mineral resources are not mineral reserves as they do not have demonstrated economic viability. there is no certainty that all or any part of the mineral resources will be converted into mineral reserves.
about commerce resources corp.
commerce resources corp. is a junior mineral resource company focused on the development of the ashram rare earth and fluorspar deposit located in quebec, canada. the company is positioned to become one of the lowest cost rare earth producers globally, with a specific focus on being a long-term supplier of mixed rare earth carbonate and/or ndpr oxide to the global market. the ashram deposit is characterized by simple rare earth (monazite, bastnaesite, xenotime) and gangue (carbonates) mineralogy, a large tonnage resource at favourable grade, and has demonstrated the production of high-grade (>45% reo) mineral concentrates at high recovery (>70%) in line with active global producers. in addition to being one of the largest rare earth deposits globally, ashram is also one of the largest fluorspar deposits globally and has the potential to be a long-term supplier to the met-spar and acid-spar markets.
for more information, please visit the corporate website at www.commerceresources.com or email [email protected].
on behalf of the board of directors
commerce resources corp.
"chris grove"
chris grove
ceo and president
tel: 604.484.2700
email: [email protected]
web: http://www.commerceresources.com
neither tsx venture exchange nor its regulation services provider (as that term is defined in policies of the tsx venture exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.
forward looking statements
this news release contains forward-looking statements, which includes any information about activities, events or developments that the company believes, expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future. forward looking statements in this news release include that that mixed rec is readily saleable; that partial separation of rees will allow for the marketability of individual elements to be produced; that ashram has the potential to become one of the largest fluorspar deposit and a long-term supplier to the met-spar and acid-spar markets; and that the company is positioning to be one of the lowest cost rare earth element producers globally. these forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking information. risks that could change or prevent these events, activities or developments from coming to fruition include: that we may not be able to fully finance any additional exploration on the ashram project; that even if we are able raise capital, costs for exploration activities may increase such that we may not have sufficient funds to pay for such exploration or processing activities; the timing and content of any future work programs; geological interpretations based on drilling that may change with more detailed information; potential process methods and mineral recoveries assumptions based on limited test work and by comparison to what are considered analogous deposits that, with further test work, may not be comparable; testing of our process may not prove successful or samples derived from the ashram project may not yield positive results, and even if such tests are successful or initial sample results are positive, the economic and other outcomes may not be as expected; the availability of labour and equipment to undertake future exploration work and testing activities; geopolitical risks which may result in market and economic instability; and despite the current expected viability of the ashram project, conditions changing such that even if metals or minerals are discovered on the ashram project, the project may not be commercially viable; the forward-looking statements contained in this news release are made as of the date hereof and the company assumes no responsibility to update or revise such information to reflect new events or circumstances, except as required by law.
view the original press release on accesswire.com
serious news for serious traders! try streetinsider.com premium free!
you may also be interested in
- avila energy corporation to close further tranches of its private placement offering of up to $3,000,000
- hertz energy inc. announces change of directors and option grant
- trail blazing ventures ltd. announces updates regarding shareholder meeting and transaction with hempalta inc.
create e-mail alert related categoriesaccesswire, press releases
sign up for streetinsider free!
receive full access to all new and archived articles, unlimited portfolio tracking, e-mail alerts, custom newswires and rss feeds - and more!
###
teslas-supercharger-network-continues-to-secure-partnerships-but-competition-is-coming: 
it's no secret that tesla inc. is the cream of the electric vehicle (ev) industry crop. and that doesn't just hold true with its vehicles. the company is also known for its growing supercharger network.
while tesla continues to secure partnerships for the future, there are a handful of startups looking to disrupt the industry. for example, dunamis charge is addressing affordability and accessibility barriers to ev adoption in urban communities. the startup and others are playing catchup, but with a niche approach, there's plenty of market share to go around.
bp and ford: new tesla partnerships
bp plc is making significant strides in the electric vehicle charging sector with a $100 million purchase of supercharger hardware from tesla. the groundbreaking deal marks the first instance of tesla’s dc fast-charging equipment being acquired for use in a third-party charging network.
the purchase is intended for bp’s ev charging business bp pulse, which is investing up to $1 billion to develop a nationwide charging network by 2030.
the tesla superchargers, capable of charging at up to 250kw, are equipped with a magic dock connector. this allows compatibility with the standardized north american charging standard (nacs) plug from tesla and a ccs combo attachment that supports most other ev models.
bp pulse’s expansion plans include installing these chargers starting in 2024 across various locations, such as travelcenters of america, thorntons, ampm, amoco as well as third-party locations like hertz rental car sites. key cities like houston, phoenix, los angeles, chicago and washington, d.c., are slated for the initial rollout. with over 27,000 charging stalls already installed, bp pulse aims to increase this number to over 100,000 globally by 2030.
in a related development, ford motor co. announced plans to incorporate more of tesla’s superchargers into its electric-vehicle charging network, exceeding previous forecasts. ford will add over 15,000 tesla superchargers to its network, an increase from an earlier projection of 12,000.
this expansion is part of ford’s strategy to grow its blueoval charge network in north america by 25%, bringing the total to over 106,000 chargers.
ford’s integration of the chargers is seen as a positive move for ev owners, who have long considered the availability of charging stations a major barrier to ev adoption. ford has also partnered with three new charging providers — francis energy, blink charging and red e charge — in the u.s. and canada, adding over 10,000 new chargers, including more than 550 new dc fast chargers, to its network.
ford’s collaboration with tesla to allow access to its extensive supercharger network signifies a major milestone in the ev industry. the partnership, formalized months ago, also makes ford the first major automaker to adopt tesla’s proprietary charging standard.
© 2024 benzinga.com. benzinga does not provide investment advice. all rights reserved.
trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.
###
alabama-poor-peoples-campaign-holds-rally-downtown-montgomery: 
alabama poor people’s campaign holds rally in downtown montgomery
montgomery, ala. (wsfa) - the alabama chapter of the poor people’s campaign held a rally saturday afternoon to mobilize low-income workers to vote.
the atmosphere was unified as activists from different backgrounds came together to ignite a voting base that could have a real impact on election day.
while the main purpose of the rally was to improve voter turnout, plenty of other causes were advocated for as well. signs addressed concerns with the united states budget and the climate crisis, among other issues.
attendees marched from the court square fountain to the steps of the state capitol building while singing “there is mean things happening in this land,” a historical and political folk song. organizers at the front of the march carried a coffin in remembrance of those who died from covid and lack of adequate healthcare.
“when people die, you may see all kinds of things listed on their death certificate, but if you dig a little deeper you might find out that they died really because of poverty related issues,” said alabama poor people’s campaign tri-chair rev. carolyn foster. “lack of medicaid expansion, not having a living wage and couldn’t find work, or lack of affordable housing.”
according to the campaign, there are 1.9 million poor and low-income eligible voters in the state of alabama, making up about 47% of the electorate.
the rally wasn’t just in alabama, either. similar events took place in over 30 states to launch the poor people’s campaigns’ 40 weeks of action leading into the presidential election later this year.
not reading this story on the wsfa news app? get news alerts faster and free in the apple app store and the google play store!
copyright 2024 wsfa. all rights reserved.
###
minnesota-vikings-garrett-bradbury-out-job-next: 
longtime vikings offensive starter could be out of a job next
by adam patrick
following the report of the minnesota vikings releasing running back alexander mattison, could center garrett bradbury be the next guy on his way out of town?
despite a disappointing performance from him in 2023, some minnesota vikings fans were caught a bit off guard when espn's adam schefter shared the news on thursday that the team is releasing running back alexander mattison after five seasons with the franchise.
moving on from mattison will reportedly create $3.35 million in cap space for the vikings, as they were able to part with him before a guarantee in his contract kicked in on march 15.
after the news of minnesota's plans to release the veteran running back was revealed on thursday, it got some people thinking about another veteran member of the team's 2023 offense who could be let go in the near future.
will garrett bradbury be the next veteran cut by the minnesota vikings?
similar to the guarantee that was going to be locked in on march 15 in mattison's contract, current vikings center garrett bradbury also has a trigger in his current deal that could result in the team cutting him before the start of free agency.
on march 15, bradbury's base salary of $4.65 million will become fully guaranteed, according to overthecap.com. his contract isn't exactly super expensive, but he hasn't exactly performed well during his tenure with minnesota, either.
in 2022, bradbury actually finished with the 11th-best offensive grade from pff among qualifying centers in the nfl. this past season, however, that pff offensive grade dropped down to 23rd among qualifying centers.
even if bradbury's contract is deemed affordable, the vikings could still use the money they would save from cutting him to bring in a better-performing center.
there are a number of intriguing centers who are expected to be available in free agency this year, including connor williams, andre james, and lloyd cushenberry iii.
all three of these pending free agents received an offensive grade from pff in 2023 that ranked 10th-best or better among qualifying centers. in fact, a total of six centers who are expected to be available in free agency this year all earned a better offensive grade from pff last season than bradbury.
minnesota is already parting ways with mattison, so it's clear they weren't happy with their rushing attack last season. could bradbury, who had pff's 21st-best run block grade among centers in 2023, be the next player the vikings look to move on in order to improve their run game before the 2024 season?
###
texas-sen-cornyn-announces-run-for-gop-leader-as-scramble-to-succeed-mcconnell-begins-in-the-senate: 
washington — texas sen. john cornyn has informed his colleagues that he intends to run for senate republican leader, becoming the first senator to announce a campaign after sen. mitch mcconnell said he will step down from the post in november.
cornyn, who served as mcconnell’s no. 2 in leadership before he was term-limited out of the job five years ago, is citing his experience in that role in a statement thursday to fellow senators announcing his run. but he also is trying to distinguish himself from mcconnell, saying, “i believe the senate is broken — that is not news to anyone.”
“from experience, i have learned what works in the senate and what does not,” cornyn said. “and i am confident senate republicans can restore our institution to the essential role it serves in our constitutional republic.”
there has long been speculation that cornyn, south dakota sen. john thune and wyoming sen. john barrasso — the “three johns” — would vie to replace mcconnell, r-ky., if and when mcconnell were to step down. but the longtime leader’s surprise announcement on wednesday that he won’t run again for republican leader after the november elections has jump-started the campaign earlier than expected, almost nine months before gop senators are expected to gather and choose a new leader behind closed doors.
cornyn, a former texas attorney general who was first elected to the senate in 2002, is a prominent member of the senate judiciary committee and a popular member of the gop conference who is seen as a steady hand. he has managed to bridge some of the caucus’ deep divides in recent years while also occasionally negotiating with democrats, as he did on bipartisan gun legislation in 2022.
he is also a prolific fundraiser for the party, having raised a total of $13 million for incumbents, the party’s senate campaign arm, and senate republican nominees already in the 2024 cycle.
in his statement, cornyn said he believes he has “built a track record of listening to colleagues and seeking consensus, while leading the fight to stop bad policies that are harmful to our nation and the conservative cause.”
cornyn said he would work to improve communication, try to move spending bills individually and make an effort to include every member in decisions. that’s a response to frequent complaints from some senators about massive year-end spending bills and mcconnell’s top-down leadership approach.
both thune, the current no. 2 republican, and barrasso, the chairman of the senate gop conference, have left the door open to runs after mcconnell’s announcement. neither has officially announced a campaign for the job.
thune told reporters that mcconnell’s departure leaves “big shoes to fill,” but that now is a time “to reflect on his service and and honor him for that. and then we’ll we’ll go from there.” after cornyn’s announcement, a spokesman for thune said the senator is reaching out to colleagues to discuss “the future of the senate republican conference and what they would like to see in their next leader,” but intends on keeping those conversations private.
barrasso said wednesday he’s focused on the november election and getting a senate majority. in terms of leadership decisions, “i’m going to talk to members of the conference, hear what they have to say, listen to them in terms of what direction they want to take.”
much of the race for leader is likely to take place through phone calls, one-on-one meetings and private gatherings over the next several months. unlike the house, where both parties vote for speaker in a public — and recently messy — spectacle, senate party leadership is chosen in closed-door conference meetings by secret ballot. cornyn was already making calls and reaching out to his fellow senators in the hours since mcconnell’s announcement.
republican senators haven’t chosen a new leader since 2007, when mcconnell was elected. that’s before most current gop senators took office.
it is unclear which of the three “johns” would have an advantage among their peers.
while cornyn is well liked and has drawn attention for his fundraising, thune could have the advantage of incumbency, as mcconnell’s current deputy. barrasso has tracked furthest to the right of the three, becoming the first of them to endorse former president donald trump for the gop presidential nomination.
thune and cornyn have criticized trump in the past, especially since the jan. 6, 2021, attack on the capitol by trump’s supporters. but each eventually endorsed him as it became more likely that he will be the party’s presidential nominee this year.
[senate republicans will face leadership struggle between trump and mcconnell camps]
there are certain to be other candidates, as well, including from the wing of the party that is closest to trump.
florida sen. rick scott challenged mcconnell in 2022 at trump’s urging, winning 10 votes, and he could run again. scott has said he is focused on his own reelection bid this year, but has appeared open to a run after that.
“i think there’s a better way to run the senate,” scott said after mcconnell’s announcement. “so we’ll see what happens.”
on thursday, scott said that he and sen. ron johnson, r-wisc., will soon call for a special conference meeting to discuss the future of the party.
the sudden scramble for the next leader comes as mcconnell, 82, had faced louder and increasing criticism from some within his party who have said it is time for a change in leadership. they have criticized mcconnell’s support for the huge end-of-year spending bills and, most recently, his outspoken backing for aid for ukraine. a growing number in his conference has opposed the assistance, saying it would be better spent on the u.s.-mexico border or elsewhere within the u.s.
the republican leader was also at odds with trump, whom he has said was " practically and morally responsible " for the capitol attack. the two haven’t spoken since before then, and trump frequently bashes him publicly.
mcconnell acknowledged his critics in his senate floor speech announcing that he would step down from that role.
“believe me, i know the politics within my party at this particular moment in time,” mcconnell said. “i have many faults, misunderstanding politics is not one of them.”
he also echoed his critics, calling for a “new generation” to take over.
in the hours after the announcement, as the surprise wore off, many senators praised mcconnell’s legacy, including his role in the senate confirmation of three conservative supreme court justices who tilted the court to the right.
others were more focused on the future.
“this is a good development,” said missouri sen. josh hawley, a frequent mcconnell critic. “my question is: why wait so long?”
###
bear-burgers-opening: 
bear burgers is the newest culinary addition to mercer village. but it is more than just a restaurant; it’s a testament to resilience, community support and the pursuit of a dream.
founded by jonathan and stephanie keene, this eatery emerged amid adversity, transforming setbacks into opportunities to create something truly special. the two faced homelessness at one point, but their grit and tenacity have been instrumental in creating multiple businesses.
the journey to bear burger’s began with “keene’s kafe,” a humble eatery tucked away in a shell gas station on thomaston road. the keenes faced challenges, including a summer burglary that threatened the business’s future. after the incident, there was an outpour of support from the community which played a pivotal role in shaping bear burger’s destiny, jonathan keene said.
“a lot of the community supported me and wanted to see me open up a standalone location somewhere nearby. they knew as well as i did that that wasn’t going to happen after the robbery," keene said. "so generally speaking, that brought in a lot of support. my whole business model is if you love on people and treat them right, they got your back.”
this motivated the pair to move elsewhere. inspired by a desire to provide a welcoming space for mercer students, the couple opened the restaurant this january.
“when i was looking for where i thought a restaurant could make the most impact in macon, my wife and i came over to the mercer area and noticed there were no restaurant areas specifically tailored for mercer students,” keene said.
for keene, it was the unwavering support of the community, particularly the mercer community, that fueled their determination to persevere. recognizing the need for a dedicated space catering to mercer students, keene envisioned a new venture that would not only provide food but also cultivate a sense of belonging.
“this business is theirs. there is nowhere on or near campus, to me, where you can be a mercer student and feel more welcomed, positive, and cared for right when you walk in here. bear burgers, to me, will become a part of the mercer experience,” keene said.
beyond serving food, keene notes that he is dedicated to giving back to the mercer community.
“we are keying out ideas right now where every month, we’ll have a competition where any student club, fraternity, or organization that is involved with a charity– however many people that they get to come here and eat that month, we’ll give them 10% to their charity,” keene said.
as the restaurant continues to grow, jon and stephanie are excited for their time in mercer village.
karisha khadayat is a student at mercer university and a contributing writer for the mercer cluster
###
quadruple-murder-refutes-myth-cannabis-183506192.html: 
quadruple murder refutes ‘myth’ that cannabis is safe, judge says
- oops!something went wrong.please try again later.
the case of a marijuana addict who murdered four people in a psychotic frenzy should be taken as a “lesson to all those who peddle the myth that cannabis is not a dangerous drug”, a judge has said.
joshua jacques, 29, stabbed to death his girlfriend, samantha drummonds, 27, and three of her family members: mother tanysha ofori-akuffo, 45, grandmother dolet hill, 64, and her husband denton burke, 58, in bermondsey, south-east london, on april 25 2022.
jacques butchered all four within the space of a single evening following a bout of “self-intoxication” with drugs and alcohol.
prosecutors, during the trial in december at the old bailey, described the scene as a “bloodbath” that would not have looked out of place in a horror film.
immediately after the murders, jacques video-called his mother from a locked bathroom, telling her: “i’m ending it, i’m gonna make a sacrifice.”
armed police who arrived at the scene were met with the sight of jacques naked and prostrate on the ground in a praying position, shouting, “allah, take me”, “kill me now,” “get rid of me,” and “god please forgive me”.
on friday, justice bryan handed the killer four life sentences with a minimum of 46 years for the “horrific catalogue of murders inflicted on three generations of the same family”.
‘psychosis’
the court heard how jacques had smoked cannabis since the age 12 and had doubled his consumption in the week running up to the killings.
justice bryan, in sentencing, said: “the tragedy that played out on 25 april 2022 is a salutary lesson to all those who peddle the myth that cannabis is not a dangerous drug.
“no one is suggesting that [the murders] were religiously motivated. you never intended to make any sacrifices of your victims. this was simply a symptom of your psychosis.
“you were well aware of the risks to your health of smoking skunk cannabis. you had doubled your consumption of cannabis in the weeks leading up to the killings.
“you may have consumed seven grams of cannabis a day immediately before the killing.”
dr nigel blackwood, a forensic psychiatrist for the prosecution, said the symptoms of manic behaviour displayed were caused by the large amount of cannabis jacques had consumed.
jacques had been hospitalised in a psychiatric ward in 2018 and diagnosed with bipolar disorder.
he had denied four counts of murder, but jurors convicted him on each charge after a trial last december.
explaining his decision not to impose a whole-life sentence, justice bryan said jacques was unlikely to pose the same risk to the public in his seventies.
“a very substantial minimum term will amount to a just punishment,” he said.
previous convictions
the court heard jacques has 11 convictions for 20 offences, including conspiracy to supply drugs.
paul raudnitz kc, defending, claimed there was no “premeditation” before jacques carried out the murders.
“the critical distinction between this case and those where the court would see fit to say that a whole-life sentence is merited is an absence of premeditation.”
mr raudnitz read a note to the court in which jacques apologised for what he had done.
“i would like to say to the family of the deceased that i am truly and sincerely sorry for all the heartache i have caused them.
“i am disgusted with myself. i cannot believe that i am the cause of this monstrosity.”
broaden your horizons with award-winning british journalism. try the telegraph free for 3 months with unlimited access to our award-winning website, exclusive app, money-saving offers and more.
###
dripping-springs-isd-response-playground-225440877.html: 
dripping springs isd’s response to playground sexual assault upsets parent
editor’s note: this story features an account of alleged sexual assault against minors. kxan has withheld the names and identifying information for the privacy of those involved. if you are in distress or need someone to talk to, please call rainn’s national sexual assault hotline at 1-800-656-4673.
dripping springs, texas (kxan) — a dripping springs isd mother describes an oct. 20 family dinner with her elementary student in heart-breaking detail.
during nightly family dinners, she, her husband and children do “highs and lows” — each tells the others about the best moment and worst moment from their day.
“i don’t have a high for the day,” said one of her children.
“we kept calm in the moment,” said the mom, after learning her child’s low for the day. “i just kept thinking, ‘what the f— happened to them?'”
the incident
according to the mom, her child and another student were both on the playground at recess. she believes five teachers and more than 100 other students were also on the large playground. security cameras were mounted around the area to monitor the students.
the two students, who knew each other from prior grades, were under a play structure and visible to teachers and cameras, according to the mom.
“we’re going to play vet,” said the other student.
according to the mom, her child said that’s when the other student reached into her child’s pants. the mom said that the other student then sexually assaulted her child.
her child told their parents that they told a teacher, but the mom said no one from the school contacted her. she said they only learned what happened when her child told the family during dinner.
after checking their child for injuries, the mom said they contacted a pediatrician, a child psychologist and the school. since the incident, she said their child has received medical care and therapy.
the investigation
the school responded to the mom the next day. it told her that a “stay away” order was put in place for the two students and that it verbally communicated the order to relevant teachers and staff.
the parents and school administrators met on oct. 23. the mom said school officials presented two options at that meeting: an internal investigation by the school district or a title ix complaint investigation. the mom said school officials told them that if a title ix complaint was filed, then details about what happened and the names of everyone involved would be public information.
the mom said they filed a title ix complaint on the same day.
kxan has filed a public information request for more information on the title ix investigation.
the mom said that on nov. 7, investigators interviewed the two students and another child who had witnessed what happened. according to the mom, those interviews corroborated her child’s story. she also said that the district deemed video footage “too grainy” to tell what happened, but it also couldn’t show them the footage, saying it had automatically been deleted after 16 days.
according to the mom, the investigation closed on nov. 20 and concluded that the other child did sexually assault her child.
“this happened in broad daylight,” the mom said. “where were the teachers? is anyone being held accountable? is anyone looking into the other student’s safety?”
jennifer edwards, the executive director of communication with dripping springs isd, told kxan the, “parents of the students who were involved were immediately notified of the incident as well as the hays county sheriff’s office and child protective services.” dripping springs isd did not give details on the alleged incident or the title ix investigation.
the day the investigation closed, the mom said the district told the parents and their child to sign a new order for their child to stay away from the other child. this upset the mom, who feels that signing the order would make her child feel like they did something wrong.
edwards tells kxan that “state and federal laws protecting student privacy do not allow the district to provide specific details about this incident.”
the outcome
after the investigation, the mom said she asked their child’s teacher about the stay-away order and to report any changes in their child’s well-being or behavior.
“the teacher said they didn’t even know about the order,” the mom said. “the isd said it wouldn’t release a notice to parents about the assault because it would be a ferpa (family educational rights and privacy act) violation.”
since then, the parents spoke with other parents, rallying others to support reforming district policies.
“it breaks my heart,” the mom said. “the policies in place aren’t good enough. we used to not have to lock doors at schools, but because of school shootings, we have to now. something needs to change. we have to do things different.”
the mom, along with 10 other parents, met with dripping springs isd and school leaders on friday, march 1. they went armed with talking points: what is staff required to do if a student under the age of 10 tells about a sexual assault? how will the isd support victims? how does the school teach students about boundaries and abuse?
“children deserve a trauma-informed and victim-centered response by the school system: asking a victim to sign stay-away documents appears to demonstrate a lack of understanding of proper child development,” reads the talking points shared by the mom. “being asked to sign a document may be interpreted by the child that they have done something wrong, which is a common feeling expressed by children who have experienced abuse and often keeps them from disclosing.”
she said her focus is on preventing other parents and students from experiencing what happened to her family.
“it’s an uncomfortable conversation that a school district doesn’t want to have. but we need to have it,” the mom said. “i just hope the district doesn’t retaliate against us because i’m advocating for my child.”
the meeting
according to the mom, the friday meeting felt like a “step in the right direction,” with leaders apologizing for perceived missteps in the process.
“it’s going to be a journey, but i think they’re willing to take appropriate steps,” she said.
the mom said the group received verbal commitments from district leaders at the meeting, including:
new security cameras, already funded through state grants for school security
better zoning and patrolling by adults supervising students during recess
the expansion of opt-in abuse prevention training to k-5 students
according to her, meeting attendees also discussed having further discussions with the district about safety policies.
dripping springs isd provided a statement to kxan friday afternoon:
the safety of the students of dripping springs isd is the district’s first and most important priority. our staff takes all reports of harm to students seriously and investigates incidents fully to determine the actions necessary to ensure the safety of all students. the incident was immediately reported to law enforcement and child protective services. the district’s title ix coordinator was notified and the appropriate procedures were followed in accordance with federal law.
jennifer edwards, dripping springs isd executive director of communications
kxan also asked dripping springs isd officials if they intended to change any policies as a result of the investigation.
“the district regularly reviews its policies and practices in order to best serve the students and families of dsisd; however, the district did not identify any concerns in the handling of this matter by campus administration,” said edwards in response to kxan’s question. “the campus took appropriate action to inform and support the involved families and ensure the safety of all students.”
when told about the district’s response, the mom was surprised and disappointed, calling it an “unfortunate inconsistency.”
“this will make parents more upset,” the mom said. “i guess we’re back to square one if they don’t think things need to change.”
kxan followed up with edwards about those answers. she reiterated that the district did not identify any missteps or mistakes in its process, calling the mom’s account of the friday meeting “inaccurate.”
“in our investigation of how the administration handled the incident, the district did not identify any missteps or mistakes. as stated, the district is always willing to review our policies and procedures in an effort to improve operations and student safety,” edwards said.
for the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to kxan austin.
###
donald-trump-fani-willis-great-embarrassment-judge-georgia-case: 
donald trump calls fani willis a 'great embarrassment' as judge weighs removing her from georgia election interference case
former president donald trump has unleashed a fiery attack on fulton co. district attorney fani willis as a judge considers whether she should be removed from prosecuting the georgia election interference case, radaronline.com has learned.
trump, along with his co-defendants, has raised concerns about a purported inappropriate relationship between willis and special prosecutor nathan wade, which they claim led to financial benefits for willis.
during a court session, an attorney representing one of trump's co-defendants, robert cheeley, made a striking comparison, stating that willis and wade behaved like "love-struck teenagers," exchanging thousands of calls and messages.
the allegations of impropriety have prompted trump to take to his truth social account to express his strong disapproval and call for the dismissal of the case altogether.
in an angry, all-capped post, trump questioned the source of funds that allegedly benefited willis and wade, asking his 6.6 million followers, "where did fani get all that cash? no way she paid her lover, 'prosecutor' nathan wade, back."
"she made up the cash story when she realized that her 'sexcapades' were paid for by the people of georgia," he continued. "again, where’s the cash, and where did it come from? the fact is, there was no cash paid, that was just an excuse she made up after she got caught. the case can’t be closed until this is determined."
- ‘major league scandal’: donald trump rages over ‘embarrassment’ fani willis following her bombshell testimony over lover nathan wade
- donald trump desperately digging for more 'dirt' on fani willis to 'tank' georgia election interference case: report
- ‘perfectly legal phone call’: donald trump attacks ‘racist’ atlanta district attorney over probe into ex-prez’s potential election interference
trump followed up his comments, claiming, "in any event, they were lovers and friends long before this witch hunt was started. they wanted money and fame! worked with [joe] biden’s doj (spent days with them in d.c.) in going after crooked joe’s opponent, me. terrible stuff! this case must be dropped — a great embarrassment to georgia!"
never miss a story — sign up for the radaronline.com newsletter to get your daily dose of dope. daily. breaking. celebrity news. all free.
the legal battle stems from the charges of racketeering brought against trump and 18 other co-defendants, including cheeley, for their alleged involvement in tampering with georgia's 2020 presidential election results.
as the case about willis' role in the trial reached its pinnacle with final arguments presented on friday, fulton county superior court judge scott mcafee announced his intention to deliver a verdict within the coming two weeks.
trump still has three other indictments to worry about after the georgia case. altogether, he currently faces 91 criminal charges in georgia, florida, new york and d.c.
the former president has denied every criminal charge against him, calling them a "political witch hunt."
###
2-police-officers-civil-process-212358347.html: 
a police officer and a process server were killed while serving an eviction notice in missouri
a civil employee serving an eviction notice and a police officer who responded to a call for help were killed thursday in independence, missouri, authorities said.
the shooting happened at a home in the area of elsea smith and bundschu road, the independence police department said on facebook.
police chief adam dustman called the fallen officer, cody allen, 35, a “hero.”
“he did exactly what the men and women of law enforcement are called to do day in and day out. and i could not be more proud of him and his service to this community,” dustman said at an afternoon news conference.
allen had been back with the department for about two years, dustman said, after having left law enforcement for other work.
but allen realized "he missed it," dustman said, and returned to a calling that was ingrained in him.
the civil process server who was killed worked for the 16th circuit court of jackson county. authorities identified him as drexel mack.
mack called 911 for help, authorities said.
two other independence police officers were wounded but are expected to make full recoveries, dustman said.
a male suspect was in custody, authorities said.
16th circuit court judge jalilah otto said mack, who was in his early 40s, had more than a dozen years of experience and was "simply doing his job — serving eviction papers."
otto called the civil process server "a true public servant."
she said mack was engaged to be married and had adult children.
otto said authorities were looking into what kind of eviction notice was being served, adding there are many types, including for rent or delinquent taxes.
a call came across the radio about an officer down at 1:09 p.m. local time, the police spokesperson said.
state highway patrol cpl. justin ewing said thursday at a separate media briefing that more than one process server was at the home when one was fatally wounded. that's when independence police were called to assist, which led to additional gunfire.
kansas city, missouri, police capt. jake becchina said his department's tactical unit had surrounded the home to keep neighbors safe. no one with the unit had made it inside the home where the eviction notice was being served, and it was unknown late thursday afternoon whether anyone else was in there, becchina said.
chief dustman lauded his department, noting officers went toward danger to the civil process server and officers who were wounded.
he said his department was shattered by the loss.
"we are a broken family," dustman said. "but as any other family, we will surround each other and lift each other up."
###
medical-incident-likely-led-to-suv-crashing-into-walmart-store-authorities-say: 
medical incident likely led to suv crashing into walmart store, authorities say
mar 2, 2024, 12:18 pm
canton township, mich. (ap) — a driver who crashed her sport-utility vehicle into a walmart store in suburban detroit was likely having a health incident at the time, authorities said saturday.
the woman and four other people who were taken to hospitals friday did not have life-threatening injuries, the canton township public safety department said.
shoppers were stunned when the jeep crashed into the store near the pharmacy department and stopped after roughly 45 feet (14 meters). it was not at the main entrance.
“preliminary investigations are indicating it was a medically related incident” that contributed to the crash, public safety spokesperson barb caruso told the associated press.
merchandise and broken shelves were scattered on the floor. the store was open again saturday after a cleanup and removal of the vehicle.
“police and fire officials are giving credit to the walmart staff and patrons who helped the victims immediately following the crash. their quick actions to provide aid to those injured or frightened are appreciated,” the public safety department said in a statement.
###
new-training-center-seeks-to-grow-prescribed-fire-capacity: 
new western training center seeks to grow prescribed fire capacity
prescribed fire is an effective tool to make catastrophic wildfires less likely, and now federal land management agencies are expanding training for those important burns.
in a recent forest service strategy document, officials are blunt about the situation they face.
“the prescribed fire implementation environment continues to grow in complexity, whereas the ability of practitioners to practice and hone their expertise has lagged, particularly in the western united states,” it reads.
but a new program - the western prescribed fire training center - seeks to address that training gap. the first class is already burning and receiving training in oklahoma. a national interagency prescribed fire training center already exists in tallahassee, florida, where over 1 million acres were burned in 2021. the western center is conceived of as an expansion of that program.
classrooms for training will be set up near prescribed fires in existing offices, or other locations, according to the strategy. federal officials hope the effort will “increase the pace of prescribed fire training-to-qualification in the western united states, provide trainees real-time experience in different fuel types and terrain, and ultimately increase national prescribed fire resource capacity.”
additional sessions will be held this year in boise, flagstaff and elsewhere, according to alex robertson, the acting director of fire and aviation at the forest service’s d.c. office.
he said that increasing the amount of prescribed burning is all about taking advantage of the windows that mother nature provides.
“and if we're not nimble enough, if we're not prepared enough, if we're not skilled enough to take advantage of every window, we're not going to get more done,” he said.
robertson said that doing the training at sites around the west will give trainees experience with different fuel types and “different politics around prescribed fire in different communities.”
this story was produced by the mountain west news bureau, a collaboration between wyoming public media, nevada public radio, boise state public radio in idaho, kunr in nevada, kunc in colorado and kanw in new mexico, with support from affiliate stations across the region. funding for the mountain west news bureau is provided in part by the corporation for public broadcasting.
###
pm-modi-bihar-visit-takes-maa-baap-ki-sarkar-dig-opposition-congress-aurangabad-rally-bjp-nitish-kumar-10-points-update-11709376327378.html: 
pm modi takes ‘maa-baap ki sarkar' dig at opposition at aurangabad rally in bihar | 10 points
prime minister narendra modi launched projects worth ₹21,400 crore during his bihar visit. while addressing a rally in aurangabad, pm modi targetted congress and other opposition parties for their dynastic politics
prime minister narendra modi launched a range of development projects worth ₹21,400 crore during his visit to bihar on saturday. the number of projects that were launched by the pm included national highways, bridges, and railway projects. while addressing a rally in aurangabad, pm modi made a veiled attack on the congress and other opposition parties.
###
email-reprimanding-napping-students-at-malachowsky-hall-brings-backlash: 
on feb. 7, around 50 students received an email whose first line read, “we appreciate how hard our faculty and students work, but it’s malachowsky hall, not malachowsky hotel.”
it referenced students sleeping in the graduate student village in malachowsky hall and included two photos of the culprits.
the email was sent by david arnold, professor and associate chair for faculty affairs at the department of electrical and computer engineering. he wrote that multiple students had been sleeping in meeting booths on the fourth floor of the building.
if students continue to use the space for sleeping, they may have their access to the student villages — located on the fourth floor — revoked, according to the message.
the message finished by telling students to reach out to their advisers and arnold himself if they feel stressed or overworked.
“we want to ensure a healthy working environment for all our students and employees,” arnold wrote.
what surprised students the most was the two photos of students sleeping attached to the email as evidence of the situation.
a screenshot of the email circulated on the unofficial uf reddit page. throughout the week, students expressed concern and frustration toward the email’s tone. the original post that contained the screenshot of the email has since been taken down.
agustin giraldo, a 24-year-old uf computer science major, spends anywhere from three to 20 hours a week at malachowsky hall for classes, studying and club meetings. he enjoys how productive malachowsky makes him feel, but the unclear restrictions and the lack of vending machines can get frustrating, he said.
he found out about the email through reddit. he was mainly caught off guard when he saw the photos attached to the email.
“it was unreasonable to take someone’s picture without their consent, especially if they’re sleeping,” giraldo said. “if you want to reiterate why that was bad, those photos were unnecessary.” after reading the email, his perception of the building changed.
“is it an academic center, or is it a business center?” he said. “what exactly is the purpose of malachowsky if it wasn’t for students or graduate students?”
he’s realized that many rooms stay locked and require special key access. he recently found out that he couldn’t stay studying later in the night because a security guard approached him around 8 p.m. and informed him students couldn’t be in the building past a certain hour.
ivan ruchkin, an engineering professor, was surprised when he first received the email. some of his students asked him about it, he said.
“they were trying to get a sense of both the reasoning and the rationale behind it,” he said.
he understands situations need to be reported, he said, especially when students can spend any time between three and 50 hours a week in malachowsky hall.
the scope of the email went beyond current graduate students, toward whom the email was geared.
joseph melville, 32, was sent the email despite having graduated last year. when he was a student, malachowsky hall hadn’t opened yet. he remembered being skeptical about the open floor plan because the clear doors and rooms could get in the way of graduate assistants’ privacy.
“it was funny in a slightly sad way,” melville said about the email.
melville was part of the graduate student wellness committee for the electrical and computer engineering department.
“it’s hard to say exactly what needs to be done,” melville said. “professors have their needs that need to be met also.”
while he is no longer a student, he said there is still a lot to be done to make sure rules and expectations are as transparent as possible.
while resources exist to help graduate assistants, there’s little awareness that they exist, melville said. to him, the main problem is that “students felt like they weren’t listened to enough.”
shayan hadjiabadi, a 27-year-old uf genetics and plant breeding graduate student, spends up to six hours a week in malachowsky hall and enjoys the graduate student room. he heard about the email after a cohort member forwarded it to him.
the email was “just very confusing,” hadjiabadi said.
“i’ve seen people sleeping just like i see people sleeping in marston and lib west,” he said. “i’ve never thought twice about it.”
it wasn’t the first time he’d heard about instances of students clashing with building administrators.
“there were solitary incidents where people were spoken to personally face-to-face, not in a mass email setting,” he said. “it’s pretty unusual to see an email that’s so pointed.”
mark tehranipoir, the chair of the department of electrical and computer engineering, wrote in an email that custodial staff originally brought the issue to the attention of the college’s leadership. he wrote that the email’s intent was never to be insensitive.
“on friday afternoon, department leadership met with students to reset the conversation, listen to their concerns and work together on finding solutions,” he wrote.
according to him, the meeting was productive.
he wrote that graduate-level engineering is very demanding, but he’s committed to making malachowsky a supportive learning environment.”
contact delia rose sauer at drosesauer@alligator.org. follow her on twitter @_delia_rose_.
delia rose sauer is a second-year journalism major and the graduate & professional school reporter for the alligator. in her free time, she loves drawing, crocheting and exploring music genres.
###
zelensky-calls-for-more-western-air-defence-s-1800790.html: 
zelensky calls for more western air defence systems to 'save lives'
faizan hashmi published march 02, 2024 | 03:40 pm
kyiv, (app - urdupoint / pakistan point news - 2nd mar, 2024) ukrainian president volodymyr zelensky on saturday urged the west to deliver more air defence systems after five people were killed in the latest russian strikes.
overnight aerial attacks claimed three lives in the southern port city of odesa, while shelling killed one person in the kharkiv region near the russian border and another in the frontline kherson region, ukrainian officials said.
"russia continues to hit civilians," zelensky said in a post on social media.
"we need more air defences from our partners. we need to strengthen the ukrainian air shield to add more protection for our people from russian terror. more air defence systems and more missiles for air defence systems saves lives," he said.
ukraine is currently on the back foot in the two-year war as a crucial $60-billion aid package is held up in the united states congress.
in odesa, "a nine-storey building was destroyed as a result of an attack by russian terrorists," interior minister igor klymenko said saturday in a post on telegram.
the attack killed at least three people, including a child, with others still unaccounted for, ukraine's emergency services said.
"rescuers pulled out the body of a child, believed to be a three-to-five-year old, from the rubble of a house," the office of ukraine's prosecutor general said.
footage shared from the scene showed several floors of a residential building collapsed and its facade ripped off.
in kharkiv, a 76-year-old man was killed in a shelling attack shortly after midnight, regional governor oleg synegubov said.
and shelling in the frontline kherson region on saturday morning killed one more person, the provincial head said.
- 'difficult situation' -
ukraine's air force said russia had launched 17 iranian "shahed" drones overnight and fired three missiles.
it said it downed 14 of the drones, but falling debris caused damage to residential buildings in odesa and kharkiv.
kyiv also appeared to have had launched its own overnight drone attack that damaged a residential building in saint petersburg, russia's second city.
the russian head of the city reported an "incident" had occurred -- language previously used to describe ukrainian attacks -- but said there were no casualties.
videos on russian social media showed what appeared to be a drone falling from the sky into the building, triggering an explosion, and locals said the blown out windows and small fires were caused by a drone hit.
ukrainian media reported russian air defences had shot down a drone that was targeting an oil depot less than a kilometre away from the building struck in saint petersburg.
kyiv has hit several russian oil refineries in recent months in what it has called fair retribution for moscow's attacks on ukraine's power grid.
the attacks come with russia seeking to press its advantage on the battlefield.
kyiv has admitted it is heavily outgunned and outnumbered, facing ammunition shortages amid aid delays.
half of all promised western ammunition arrives in the country late, the defence minister has said -- in what he called critical delays that cost lives and territory.
russian forces have pressed westwards following last month's capture of avdiivka, and have seized several small villages in recent days.
visiting frontline military posts on saturday, ukraine's new commander-in-chief oleksandr syrsky said "the situation at the front remains difficult, but controlled."
bur-jc/ach
recent stories
civil, military leadership vow to work together for pakistan
govt keeps petrol price steady, raises diesel by rs1.77 per litre
no iaea official visiting pakistan: foreign office
transfer, posting of several ssps of sindh ordered
wild poliovirus case reported from chaman
released senegal opponent makes first public appearance in months
'everything is already decided': no suspense as vote begins in russia
foreign minister ishaq dar briefed on issue of pia flights to europe
holders man city to face real madrid in champions league quarters
pakistan committed to combat islamophobia: minister for foreign affairs ishaq da ..
prime minister shehbaz sharif calls for united front against islamophobia
nissanka ton helps sri lanka level bangladesh series
more stories from world
-
us judge rules top prosecutor can stay in trump georgia election case3 hours ago
-
as a tense haiti awaits new leadership, fresh violence erupts3 hours ago
-
powerful tornadoes roar through us midwest, killing 33 hours ago
-
eu chief outlines more concessions for bloc's farmers3 hours ago
-
european champions italy call up three newcomers for us friendlies4 hours ago
-
wall street stocks slide as rate cut hopes diminish4 hours ago
-
released senegal opponent makes first public appearance in months5 hours ago
-
'everything is already decided': no suspense as vote begins in russia5 hours ago
-
dutch pick france's naval group for submarines deal5 hours ago
-
'difficult' friday prayers at jerusalem's al-aqsa mosque5 hours ago
-
putin vows revenge for ukrainian attacks as russians vote5 hours ago
-
scholz, macron and tusk affirm unity on ukraine5 hours ago
###
john-rich-viral-gun-message-jfk-1875020: 
john rich has become a divisive figure online and now a post he has made about guns has gone viral.
the country musician has taken to x (formerly twitter) to share his thoughts on gun control, referring to jfk when doing so.
"when kennedy was shot, nobody blamed the gun," he wrote. at the time of writing, the post had been viewed 761,100 times.
people took to rich's post to criticize him for his take, with many disagreeing with what he said.
newsweek contacted a spokesperson for rich via email friday for comment.
"uh, you should probably just shut up now," one person wrote.
"hey genius—when has anyone blamed guns when it's not a mass shooting?" someone else asked.
"kennedy couldn't have been shot if there wasn't a gun," another person commented.
a fourth added: "when jfk was shot, everyone and everything was blamed."
others took to the comments to show their support for rich.
"the good gentleman has a point," a different x user said.
"democrats had not been taken over by crazy people yet," wrote another.
"good point, but nowadays no one takes the blame, it is always someone else, and this shows in the current leadership as well," someone else commented.
while rich didn't clarify what his post was in response to, it comes amid renewed calls for stricter gun laws after a woman was killed and 22 people were injured in a mass shooting at the end of the february 14 parade to celebrate the kansas city chiefs' super bowl win in kansas city.
it occurred on the sixth anniversary of the 2018 shooting at marjory stoneman douglas high school in parkland, florida, in which 14 students and three staff members were killed.
gun violence continues to claim lives at a high rate in the united states. more than 4,800 people have died in shootings so far in 2024, at least 2,100 of them in homicides or accidental incidents, according to the gun violence archive.
on february 17, president joe biden noted that there had been more mass shootings in 2024 "than there have been days in the year."
for the joy of the parade to be turned into tragedy "cuts deep in the american soul," the president said in a statement.
he called on people to press congress to ban assault weapons, to limit high-capacity gun magazines, strengthen background checks and "keep guns out of the hands of those who have no business owning them or handling them."
he added that the shooting "should move us, shock us, shame us into acting. what are we waiting for?" he said. "what else do we need to see? how many more families need to be torn apart? it is time to act."
the parade shooting isn't the only one to have made headlines recently.
on february 17, two people were taken to hospital with gunshot wounds after shots were fired at nobel drive and lombard place in the university city neighborhood at around 8:40 p.m., nbc san diego reported.
on the same weekend, three people were injured in a shooting at a bar in new york city. the shooting occurred inside just lorraine's place bar on adam clayton powell jr. boulevard in manhattan's harlem neighborhood on february 18, a spokesperson for the new york police department (nypd) told newsweek.
uncommon knowledge
newsweek is committed to challenging conventional wisdom and finding connections in the search for common ground.
newsweek is committed to challenging conventional wisdom and finding connections in the search for common ground.
about the writer
billie is a newsweek pop culture and entertainment reporter based in london, u.k. her focus is reporting on film and tv, trending news, and the entertainment industry. she has extensively covered pop culture, women's rights, and lifestyle topics throughout her career and has a strong interest in the effect entertainment news has on everyday life. originally from sydney, billie cut her teeth as a femail reporter for daily mail australia before moving to london in 2019. she joined newsweek in 2023 from the mirror and has previously written for metro.co.uk, daily star, popsugar, fabulous, and insider. she studied media (communications and journalism) at the university of new south wales. languages: english.
you can get in touch with billie by emailing b.schwabdunn@newsweek.com, or by following her on x at @billie_sd.
billie is a newsweek pop culture and entertainment reporter based in london, u.k. her focus is reporting on film and ... read more
to read how newsweek uses ai as a newsroom tool, click here.
###
pippa-middleton-ex-died-traumatic-142929842.html: 
pippa middleton’s ex died from ‘traumatic head wound,’ inquest told
- oops!something went wrong.please try again later.
- oops!something went wrong.please try again later.
thomas kingston, the husband of prince michael of kent’s daughter lady gabriella windsor and the ex-boyfriend of pippa middleton, died from a “traumatic head wound” and a gun was found close to his body, an inquest was told friday.
the 45-year-old financier, whose shocking death was announced by buckingham palace, was found dead sunday at an outbuilding at his parents’ country mansion in the scenic cotswolds region of southwest england, the hearing at gloucestershire coroner’s court heard. british authorities had previously said that police and paramedics were called to the scene just before 6:30 p.m., and his death was not being treated as suspicious.
palace mourns ‘shock’ death of lady gabriella windsor’s 45-year-old husband
king charles iii and queen camilla sent their “most heartfelt thoughts and prayers” to kingston’s loved ones in the wake of his death. lady gabriella, in a joint statement with his family, said kingston was an “exceptional man who lit up the lives of all who knew him” and said his passing had come as “great shock to the whole family.”
senior coroner katy skerrett said at the inquest that kingston had been visiting his parents’ home on sunday where they ate lunch together. afterward, his father took his dogs out for a walk and then came home to find that kingston was not in the house, according to the independent.
his mother also joined the search to find him. during the search, kingston’s father forced his way into an outbuilding that had been locked. “he found mr. kingston deceased with a catastrophic head injury,” skerrett said. “a gun was present at the scene.”
she added that the post-mortem had listed a provisional cause of death as a “traumatic wound” to the head.
kingston, a financier, married lady gabriella—a second cousin of king charles—in 2019 in a ceremony at windsor castle attended by the likes of the late queen elizabeth ii and prince harry. he’d earlier dated the princess of wales’ younger sister in 2011, according to tatler, and remained close with the middleton family. both kingston and lady gabriella had attended pippa middleton’s wedding to james matthews in 2017.
before working in finance, kingston had worked as a hostage negotiator in iraq, according to the telegraph. he’d been in baghdad as a project manager for the international centre for reconciliation, a religious-based organization that worked on resolving conflict.
reverend canon andrew white, who led the only anglican church in iraq, said kingston was “one of the most remarkable people i have ever worked with” and said they’d “survived some close scrapes,” including a 2004 bombing.
“tom worked with me in iraq through the worst of the iraq war,” white said after kingston’s death. “he was a great man of deep faith and wisdom. i know for sure he is now in glory.”
if you or a loved one are struggling with suicidal thoughts, please reach out to the national suicide prevention lifeline by dialing or texting 988.
get the daily beast's biggest scoops and scandals delivered right to your inbox. sign up now.
stay informed and gain unlimited access to the daily beast's unmatched reporting. subscribe now.
###
trump-waves-at-migrants-texas-border-visit-they-like-me-2024-3: 
- donald trump waved at migrants at the southern border and exclaimed that they like him.
- trump has proposed launching a mass deportation campaign if reelected in 2024.
- on a rival visit, biden urged trump to support a bipartisan border security package.
former president donald trump waved and pumped his fist at migrants at the southern border with mexico — the very same ones he is trying to keep out of the country.
"they like trump, can you believe it?" an amused trump said while visiting the border near the rio grande in texas on thursday.
"they like me, governor," trump added to texas gov. greg abbot, who was taking him on a border tour.
trump has suggested that he would launch the largest deportation campaign in history if he's reelected in 2024, among other stringent measures to keep migrants out.
not long after he waved at the migrants, trump gave a speech at eagle pass in which he said biden had the "blood of countless innocent victims" on his hands" because of his immigration policies.
he listed specific cases in which undocumented immigrants were reported to have attacked people, including the killing of 22-year-old laken riley, whose death has grabbed national attention.
"the monster charged in the death is an illegal alien migrant who was led into our country and released into our country by crooked joe biden," trump said.
despite such individual cases, studies have found that immigrants are less likely to commit crimes than us-born individuals.
president biden tells trump — 'join me'
president joe biden simultaneously visited another border town across the state on thursday as both tried to score political points on the flash point issue of immigration as the november election nears.
polls show that immigration is one of biden's major vulnerabilities, and trump has continued to highlight his contrastingly draconian approach.
on his rival texas visit, biden urged trump to help him pass his proposed border security package, which republicans tanked under trump's orders.
the package would see billions of dollars put toward staff and resources on the southern border, where officials have been overwhelmed by a surge in migrant crossings.
"here's what i would say to mr trump," biden said. "instead of playing politics with the issue, instead of telling members of congress to block this legislation, join me."
"you know, and i know it's the toughest, most efficient, most effective border security bill this country's ever seen. so instead of playing politics with the issue, why don't we just get together and get it done?" biden said.
###
c3f20971c78ce5c9: 
australia's clampdown on hate crimes should protect jews tooasia.nikkei.com/opinion/australia-s-clampdown-on-hate-crimes-should-protect-jews-too
of all the acts of antisemitism seen since the hamas attack that killed around 1,200 israeli soldiers and civilians on oct. 7, few compare to what transpired in central sydney just two days afterward, when the soil was still wet with the blood of the victims and israeli forces had yet to move into gaza.
this story appeared on asia.nikkei.com.
###
suspects-arrested-san-jose-shooting-killed-1-18697321.php: 
san jose police said thursday they arrested two men accused of shooting two other men, one fatally, in december.
joshua sodapop bocanegra, 20, of san jose was arrested in san francisco on feb. 15. that same day, police also arrested michael carabajal, 20, of gilroy, in gilroy, police said. both suspects were booked into santa clara county main jail on suspicion of homicide.
authorities are still investigating the motives and circumstances of the shooting, which occurred on dec. 17. around 4:19 a.m., officers responded to the area of snow and giusti drives after a report of a gun being discharged, police said. officers arrived to find evidence of a shooting. shortly after, two men, each suffering from at least one gunshot wound, arrived at a local hospital, according to police.
advertisement
article continues below this ad
despite lifesaving efforts, one of the men was pronounced dead at the hospital. the second victim’s injuries were determined to be non-life-threatening and he was stabilized, police said.
police did not release the names of the victims, and the santa clara county coroner’s office could not be reached thursday night.
reach jordan parker: jordan.parker@sfchronicle.com; twitter: @jparkerwrites
###
202403020052.html: 
as external actors seem to lessen pressure on west africa's juntas, guineans register their discontent with military governance.
from one perspective, the past week has been a success for military rulers in west africa. the economic community of west african states (ecowas), announced the easing of sanctions on niger, mali, and guinea, backing down from earlier efforts to draw a hard line against unconstitutional transfers of power in the region. while the regional bloc's decision may not be sufficient to bring the so-called alliance of sahel states (consisting of mali, burkina faso, and niger) back into the fold, it can still be seen as a validation of the juntas' determination to resist external pressure.
internal pressure is another story entirely. instead of celebrating the ecowas decision, guineans were expressing their deep dissatisfaction with the government ecowas was attempting to placate. a national strike began on monday as trade unions demanded not just better wages, but an end to internet restrictions and the release of the secretary general of the union of press professionals. in some areas, demonstrators clashed with security forces, a far cry from the exuberant masses that came out to cheer mamady doumbouya and his uniformed comrades when they overthrew the government in 2021.
it's clear that the junta is under pressure. on february 20, doumbouya abruptly dissolved the transitional government and sealed the country's borders. a week later came a decree that former opposition leader mamadou bah had been appointed prime minister. the general strike has now been suspended, but popular dissatisfaction with the cost of living and demands for greater civil and political rights will persist.
the change that the military leaders promoted as they ousted former president alpha conde--following his manipulation of the constitutional and electoral landscape to devise a third term--has been harder to deliver than it was to promise. for all of doumbouya's pan-african posturing in international fora, he has been unable to perform any heroics for the population he supposedly serves. since june, guineans have taken to the streets to protest against the military regime, sometimes at the cost of their lives. it's worth watching what happens now that the bloom is off the rose. the resistance of guineans is just as significant a signal of what african populations want as the initial reactions to military seizures of power.
###
2-men-arrested-for-2023-fatal-san-jose-shooting: 
2 men arrested for 2023 fatal san jose shooting
san jose, calif. - two men were arrested recently for a 2023 homicide in san jose, authorities said.
joshua sodapop bocanegra of san jose and michael carabajal of gilroy, both 20, are accused of shooting two victims on dec. 17, 2023, around 4:20 that morning in the area of snow and gisusti drives. one victim died in the hospital that day and another one survived.
san jose's police covert unit apprehended bocanegra in san francisco on feb. 15. carabajal was arrested in gilroy. both men were booked into the santa clara county main jail for homicide.
joshua sodapop bocanegra of san jose. bocanegra is a suspect in a 2023 san jose homicide.
a suspect for the shooting has not been provided. authorities are not revealing the victim's name pending notification of next of kin.
the december shooting marked san jose's 33rd homicide for 2023.
anyone with information about the shooting is asked to contact det. sgt. martinez or det. jize with the san jose police department at 3934@sanjoseca.gov or 4324@sanjoseca.gov, respectively.
sjpd can also be contacted at (408) 277-5283. anonymous tips can be submitted through the silicon valley crime stoppers and may be eligible for a cash reward.
###
troops-raid-terrorists-stronghold-in-lake-chad-region-neutralise-three: 
news
troops raid terrorists’ stronghold in lake chad region, neutralise three
the nigerian army in conjunction with hybrid force and element of civilian joint task force, have successfully raided boko haram/islamic state west africa province, iswap, terrorists’ stronghold in the lake chad region.
in a statement by the director, army public relations, maj.-gen. onyema nwachukwu, on friday in abuja, the operation was carried out on wednesday with a fierce battle, leading to the killing of three terrorists and recovery of a mine resistant ambush protected, mrap, vehicle.
other items recovered are a truck mounted anti aircraft gun and a cache of arms and ammunition.
according to nwachukwu, the insurgents attacked the troops with a vehicle borne improvised explosive device, vbied, mortar, gun trucks and motorbikes.
he further said the insurgents fell under the overwhelming superior fire power of the troops, forcing them to abandon their stronghold, armaments and equipment in disarray.
the operation, he said, proved to be a major setback to the insurgents, as the gallant troops neutralised three terrorists.
“items recovered are one mrap, one gun truck, one dushka machine gun, one ak 47 rifle and one locally fabricated gun.
“troops also captured one rocket propelled grenade (rpg) bomb, 273 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, one pumping machine, 65 dushka links, 48 general purpose machine gun links and three motorbikes.
“the gallant troops are presently exploiting their success in pursuit of the routed insurgents,” he said.
nwachukwu said the nigerian army troops had, in a separate operation at criminals’ hideouts in katakpa village in toto local government area of nasarawa state, eliminated one criminal.
he said the troops also recovered two ak-47 rifles, one pump action semi-automatic rifle, three ak-47 magazines and 90 rounds of 7.62 mm special ammunition.
###
former-mit-researcher-pleads-guilty-204033130.html: 
former mit researcher pleads guilty to 2021 killing of yale grad student
new haven, conn. (ap) — a former researcher at the massachusetts institute of technology has pleaded guilty to the 2021 killing of a yale university graduate student found shot outside his car in connecticut.
qinxuan pan faces 35 years in prison following his guilty plea thursday in a new haven court. the 32-year-old will be sentenced april 25.
pan’s lawyer william gerace said friday that it was “prudent to take this reasonable plea bargain” as his client was facing 60 years if convicted.
prosecutors say that on the morning of feb. 6, 2021, pan shot kevin jiang multiple times on a street in new haven, which is home to yale university. he fled, leaving jiang lying by his car with gunshot wounds to his head, chest and extremities.
pan had eluded authorities for three months following the shooting death and was apprehended in alabama, where officials said he was caught living under a fake name with $19,000 in cash, a passport and several cellphones.
a graduate student at yale’s school of the environment, jiang grew up in chicago and was an army veteran.
thursday’s statement from prosecutors didn’t mention a motive for the killing, but court documents show pan knew jiang’s fiancée, zion perry, from when they both attended mit.
but perry told authorities “they never had a romantic or sexual relationship, they were just friends, but she did get a feeling that he was interested in her during that time.”
jiang had just left perry’s apartment after a day of fishing when pan shot him. jiang and perry had been engaged just days earlier.
download the free boston 25 news app for breaking news alerts.
follow boston 25 news on facebook and twitter. | watch boston 25 news now
###
fire-destroys-garage-damages-house-in-rural-polk-county: 
fisher, minn. (kfgo) – a wood burning stove appears to be the source of a fire in northwestern minnesota that destroyed an attached garage and damaged a house.
the polk county sheriff’s office says when deputies arrived at the home southwest of fisher, the garage was fully engulfed and the fire had spread to the house.
the east grand forks, crookston, and fisher fire departments put out the fire. there were people in the house when the fire started, but everyone was able to get out safely and no one was hurt.
the minnesota state patrol and crookston area ambulance also responded.
###
the-decline-and-fall-of-davenport-iowa-a-timeline: 
how did the city administrator, who hired the department heads that mismanaged two of the city's biggest disasters in modern history, secure a $1.6mm payment for emotional damages and lost wages in secret without a city council vote until after the 2023 municipal elections?
important note to the reader: all underlined phrases in the timeline below hyperlink to the document that corroborates that statement. most of the hyperlinked documents were acquired through freedom of information act (foia) requests.
january, 1995: thomas warner is hired as assistant city attorney for the city of davenport, iowa. warner is a graduate of the university of iowa college of law and previously worked as an associate attorney at mcdermott, will & emery in chicago and lane & waterman in davenport.
april, 2007: warner is promoted to lead the city’s legal department as corporation counsel. his annual salary is increased from $83,591 to $94,000.
august, 2014: davenport city administrator craig malin hires corrin spiegel as an assistant to the city administrator.
june 24, 2015: davenport city administrator, craig malin, leaves after 17 years in the position. "mr. malin thanked council members for their professional and positive approach to resolving mayor bill gluba's sudden and unilateral resignation requests of last week," malin said in his statement. "mr. malin is not resigning in response to mayor gluba's dual-targeted requests of him and corporation counsel tom warner to do so. rather, he is moving forward positively, with an amicable party as davenport's longest-serving city administrator."
june 25, 2015: corrin spiegel becomes interim city administrator.
november 9, 2015: with 21.56% of eligible voters voting, frank klipsch beats bill gluba for mayor 10,206 to 4.998.
december 2015: city forms a search committee and hires strategic government resources who secure 34 applicants for the permanent city administrator position.
july 11-12, 2016: city officials interview three finalists for permanent city administrator and the public is invited to meet all three.
july 20, 2016: spiegel hired as davenport city administrator at an annual salary of $178,000.
“this is spiegel’s first time as a full-time city administrator. she previously served as economic development director of the city of centennial, colorado.” spiegel prevails over the then hilton head, south carolina town manager and stallings, north carolina’s city manager. spiegel states, “i am proud of the great strides we have made in our transparency efforts, customer experience platform, public safety initiatives, and economic development and i look forward to continuing the progress.”
may 15, 2017: rich oswald is hired and made head of the newly created neighborhood services. he is in charge of all rental inspections in davenport. he has had no previous experience as a rental inspector. his starting salary is $107,000 a year.
july 20, 2017: davenport fire chief lynn washburn-livingston files harassment and bullying complaint against spiegel with the city of davenport’s human resources department.
july 24, 2017: 2:26 pm: spiegel informed washburn via email of the decision to place her on administrative leave. (documentation pending.)
in 2021, washburn would eventually sue the city of davenport and win about $260,000 as part of a settlement of a lawsuit filed by the former fire chief who alleged she was discriminated against because of her age and gender. the city’s insurance carrier travelers insurance settled the lawsuit without city council approval, as allowed under the city’s policy. davenport mayor mike matson said he would have preferred to have the case go to court. “we are disappointed. we were looking forward to a public trial on this matter,” city attorney tom warner stated.
jan. 31, 2018 4:30 am: quad city times reporter devan patel’s article titled, “change marks davenport administrator's first years on the job,” is published on the paper’s web site. the article opens with, “one-third of the 12 major department heads have changed in the time corri spiegel was promoted from assistant to the city administrator to city administrator.” patel recounts details on the departures of fire chief washburn, public works director michael clarke (2015), police chief don schaeffer (2015), and chief information officer rob henry (2016). patel quotes clarke as stating, ““my regret is huge. i had to abandon my staff to what was a toxic environment. i love where i landed, but i don’t like the way it happened.” patel’s article includes details of spiegel creating new job positions such as the inclusion and equity administrator to be overseen directly by spiegel which replaced the affirmative action officer previously located in the human resources office. the article reports that spiegel created a new position capital manager and filled it with clay mallory who was spiegel’s assistant mallory merritt’s husband.
as of february 29, 2024 mrs. merritt is employed as the interim city administrator and chief finacial officer and according to mr. merrit's linkedin profile he is is currently employed as the assistant public works director and according to the city's departments web page he is employed as the director of engineering & capital projects.
jan. 31, 2018 6:00 am: the quad city times removes patel’s article “change marks davenport administrator's first years on the job,” from its website. roughly three weeks later patel leaves the quad city times.
april 30, 2019 3:25:07: the temporary levy made of hesco barriers collapses, flooding downtown davenport. “the inundation was so sudden that emergency responders had to rescue people from buildings.”
may 29, 2019: “the city of davenport's city administrator, corrin spiegel, has released a letter to residents and business owners following the barrier breach 29 days ago… spiegel [wrote] "davenport's flood plan is not and never was intended specifically to protect businesses.”
november 5, 2019: “despite low turnout for the 2019 elections,” (16.63%) mike matson is elected mayor over rita rawson 7,199 to 4,871.
january 28, 2020: three years before a section of the building at 324 main street would collapse and kill three tenants, a city rental inspection includes photographs of the deteriorating red brick wall that collapsed. starting on page six of the report are clear photos of the infamous brick wall beginning to fail (the photo is time-stamped 01/24/2020).
see the reader cover story from february 2024 for the extensive timeline and linked documentation on this disaster.
august 26, 2020: official notice and order. seventy four violations including, “throughout the entire 6th floor. replace/repair water damaged ceilings,” inoperable fire alarm system and, “exterior walls-deteriorated / missing exterior block / brick / stucco / stone.” this is the wall that will collapse three years later.
may 26, 2021: final official notice. seventy-four violations cited with photographs included. none of these violations will be fixed.
june 21, 2021: 324 main street is sold by waukee investments i, llc to davenport hotel, llc for $4,193,000. davenport hotel, llc was created on may 20, 2021 by andrew wold.
august 2, 2021: “ri [re-inspections] on existing violations [at 324 main street] on hold per rich oswald – tch [tony haut]” rich oswald is director of development & neighborhood services. anthony (tony) haut is the code enforcement officer at neighborhood services. the development and neighborhood services department is responsible for planning, zoning, and code enforcement activities. no further re-inspections were performed at 324 main street after this order. tenants were placed in apartments that had open housing violations. (a july 2023 amended lawsuit accuses oswald of voluntary manslaughter, non-felonious mis-conduct in office, neglect of duty and felonious misconduct in office.)
august 27, 2021: andrew wold applies for rental license for 324 main st. wold does not pay fee.
november 2, 2021: mayor matson is re-elected over athena gilbraith 6,860 to 5,394. voter turnout drops to 12.01%.
january 28, 2022: the city of davenport sends wold a final notice of delinquent rental license fees. “this letter is your final notice that all delinquent fees are to be paid in full by the end of the business day on 2/11/2022.” wold did not pay the delinquent fees by 2/11/2022 and no actions were taken.
june 22, 2022: the davenport city council passes a resolution in support of the state of iowa awarding tax credits for, “the 324 main street – the davenport project,” and offering local matching funds from the city in an amount not less than $1,000 per dwelling unit...”
january 26, 2023: humility homes executive director ashley velez writes in an email to third ward alderman marion meginnis that tenants at 324 main street have not had heat for weeks. “i am hoping that you can help address this as this property management company is not a great one and we feel are taking advantage of tenants,” she wrote to meginnis. the next day, meginnis forwarded velez’s complaint to rich oswald, director of davenport’s neighborhood services, mayor mike matson and city administrator corri spiegel. no further action was taken by anyone at the city. rich oswald and corri spiegel are both defendants in multiple lawsuits filed by the victims of 324 main street.
february 2, 2023: notice of public hazard. “part of the south-west wall has been gradually failing. this failure is seen to continue on the inside whythes of brick masonry as well. there is visible crumbling of this exterior load being wall under the support beam.” this report contains numerous photographs which visibly show that collapse is imminent.
this document is signed by trishna r. pradhan, chief building official. ms. pradhan resigned her position with the city the day after the partial collapse of 324 main street. she is also named as a defendant in the combined lawsuits. she is represented by the city’s outside counsel lane and waterman.
february 21, 2023: the quad city times reports that city administrator corri spiegel salary and benefits now total $338,445 a year.
march 13, 2023: letter from fire marshal jim morris to andrew wold. “the lack of responsiveness with this property is unacceptable, this is a r-2 building that has many occupants and requires the life safety equipment to be fixed and inspected as required by code.”
may 3, 2023: official notice to vacate. “…conditions / violations have not been corrected therefore the building [324 main street] has been tagged / ordered vacated and is deemed substandard.” “this is the final notice to vacate this building/unit by: 6/3/2023, 07:30 am.”
may 27, 2023 2:51 pm: davenport fire department 911 report. “e1c was dispatched to… [324 main street] for a passer-by who called in 911 in regards to large multi-story building with bricks “bulging” out… chief 1 also arrived on scene and stated this matter has already been addressed and there was no further action needed from e1c.” davenport fire department was on scene for 4 minutes. the next day the building would collapse.
may 28, 2023 4:55 pm: 324 main street partial collapse. branden colvin, 42, ryan hitchcock, 51 and daniel prien, 61, are killed. peach berry is trapped in the rubble.
may 28, 2023 sometime after 5:01 pm: peach berry’s leg is amputated on site. “it was determined that empathy for the victim and her partner [lexus berry] should be employed. the victim’s partner was donned in protective gear and lead to the rescue area to see the victim and exchange any words they desired’ no physical contact was allowed due to the nature of the area. the very brief exchange was discontinued and the civilian was led out of the building…”
may 29. 2023 12:46 pm: city administrator corri spiegel writes in an email, "we have authorized the emergency demolition contract with valley construction, who is mobilized on-site." in fact, no contract with valley construction was ever authorized. d. w. zinser co. inc. of walford, iowa would eventually be paid $647,000 for the work.
may 29, 2023: crowds gather to protest demolition after woman pulled from collapsed davenport apartment.
may 29, 2023 5:00 pm: lisa brooks found alive on fourth floor of 324 main street. “woman emerges from davenport apartment building set to be demolished hours later.”
june 5, 2023: the first of eight lawsuits is filed against the city claiming the city knew that 324 main street was unsafe for human habitation.
june 14, 2023: “davenport city council members are speaking out alleging they are being silenced by city staff.” aldermen derek cornette, judith lee and tim kelly are placed on a “communications protocol,” which forbids them from speaking or communicating directly with city staff. “20% of davenport city council [is] being inappropriately and unacceptably obstructed from efficiently and effectively performing our responsibilities and duty,” lee said.”tv6 filed a freedom of information act request asking for communications between the city attorney, city administrator and any other relevant staff to lee and cornette. city corporation counsel warner declined to comment on the communication protocol.
august 31, 2023: administrative assistant to mayor/council tiffany thorndike sends ‘amicable separation agreement request’ to city attorney warner. this document, and administrative assistant to mayor/council samantha torres’ amicable separation agreement request, below, are extremely important documents. these documents are so important that thorndike and torres filed an application for protective order in the city of davenport’s lawsuit against me to keep these documents confidential (“tiffany thorndike and samantha torres request that this court enter an order placing defendant’s exhibits d and e (this document) at a security level limiting access to the parties and court.” that’s why you should go to the reader web site, read them and ask yourself, “is the harassment alleged in this and torres’ allegations of such a level that they are entitled to the payments that they received from the city?”
one legal filing states, “the described alleged acts of, “discrimination, harassment, bias, intimidation, and retaliation by the city and its officials,” therein to be painfully trivial and clearly not so egregious as to warrant the extraordinarily lucrative severance agreements (see exhibits “h” and “i”) that the intervenors received.” while another legal filing undercuts thorndike’s torres’s and spiegel’s arguments for their payoffs by stating, “there were no written complaints filed by either spiegel, thorndike or torres against any employee or official of the city of davenport with the city human resources department, prior to the execution of each settlement agreement, on september 8, 2023 and october 6, 2023.”
august 31, 2023: ‘torres’ sends ‘amicable separation agreement request’ to city attorney warner. again, the reader is urged to download and read this actual document. in addition to the statements, above, look at both the thorndike and torres ‘demand letters’. they appear to be written by the same person and submitted at exactly the same time. they are not written on an attorney’s stationery. who wrote these demand letters and why?
september 1, 2023 8:04: corri spiegel sends email to her administrative assistant mallory merritt with attached thorndike and torres separation agreements.
september 1, 2023 8:10: corri spiegel sends email to city aldermen that thorndike and torres will be out of office indefinitely.
this is the infamous leaked email.
september 6, 2023: city administrator spiegel and city attorney warner issue ‘news release’ about the september 1, 2023 leaked email. “it is essential to recognize that these employees were compelled to take leave due to a work environment that was no longer tolerable, resulting from the actions and behaviors of multiple elected officials. regrettably, the act of disclosing this information serves as additional vindictive retaliation against already victimized employees.
the media, more focused on sensationalism than ethical fact finding, has been utilized as an instrument to exacerbate the harm.
the sincere hope is that those promoting a false narrative will have the decency to publicly apologize to the affected employees, extend their apologies to the impacted families, and promptly issue a formal correction statement. due to this being a confidential personnel matter, no further comments will be made.”
this public statement does not cite what the false narrative is that resulted from an alderman ostensibly leaking spiegel’s september 1, 2023 email. nor does this news release articulate that which must be formally corrected.
september 6, 2023: with less than 24 hours warning, the city of davenport schedules a ‘trial’ to remove alderman cornette. the ‘trial of alderman cornette’ is scheduled for september 7, 2023, at 5:00 pm. it will feature the written testimony of thorndike, torres and spiegel.
september 6, 2023 3:49 pm: warner sends email to seven aldermen stating, “i received proposals from tiffany thorndike and samantha torres,” and, “… please let me know by 5:00 pm, thursday, september 7, 2023 … otherwise i will proceed.” what is the rush? why does warner have to close the settlement agreements with thorndike and torres before 5:00 pm. thursday, september 7, 2023? what is happening at precisely that time?
september 7, 2023: ‘thorndike’ sends warner ‘addendum 1 – amicable separation agreement request’.
september 7, 2023 3:52 pm: warner emails torres and thorndike with settlement acceptance. this is an hour and eight minutes before the ‘cornette trial’ which will use thorndike’s and torres’s written testimony of harassment against the alderman.
september 7, 2023 5:00 pm: city council meeting of the ‘cornette trial’. thorndike’s, torres’s and spiegel’s written testimony make up most of the alleged charges against cornette.
september 8, 2023: thorndike and torres sign their separation agreements the day after the ‘cornette trial’. the thorndike separation agreement, calls for thorndike to receive $157,000 plus health insurance for another year. the torres separation agreement calls for torres to receive $140,500 plus a year of health insurance. a crucial section of both documents (and the later separation agreement that spiegel would sign, too) all contain the same boilerplate that forbids thorndike, torres or spiegel from suing the city, again:
“thorndike/torres/spiegel hereby releases and forever discharges the city and its officers, employees, and agents, in their official capacities, of and from any and all past or present claims, demands, obligations, actions and causes of action of any name or nature, accrued or hereafter to accrue, and whether based on tort, contract, or other theory of recover arising out of or in connection with her employment with the city, including, but not limited to, any claims of retaliation or discrimination prohibited by the iowa civil rights act, title vii of the 1964 civil rights act or the davenport ordinance on human rights. the parties further agree not to sue or otherwise institute any legal proceeding of any nature against the other party, with the exception of litigation by either party to enforce the terms of this agreement.” (emphasis added.)
september 15, 2023: spiegel demand letter allegedly submitted to warner. we have never seen the spiegel demand letter. the city of davenport currently suing me to keep this document confidential.
september 15, 2023: alderman cornette files lawsuit against city of davenport. “ald. cornette is being retaliated against by the city of davenport and the mayor, in our opinions, because of public comments he's made concerning the 324 main st. building collapse," [cornette’s attorney mike] meloy said, as well as his stances on other public issues.”
september 28, 2023: mayor matson is interviewed on wqpt local pbs tv station by jim mertens. "what can be said as far as the cost (from the pending lawsuits of 324 main street building collapse) to the city and the taxpayers?" mertens asks. matson replies, "well, we're hoping to get some of that cost back from the respective people responsible."
october 6, 2023: warner sends out email to city council and mayor stating that the, “plane landed yesterday,” which is a reference to having concluded a settlement agreement with city administrator corrin spiegel.
october 6, 2023: spiegel signs separation agreement. spiegel is to be paid $600,000 for lost wages plus another $1,000,000 for, “emotional pain and suffering,” (not subject to employment taxes). also health insurance until december 2024. like the torres and thorndike agreements (above) spiegel agrees not to sue the city of davenport.
october 10, 2023: davenport municipal elections primaries results (voter turnout is 5.72%): croken 1,422, matson 1,774, collins 507, westmoreland 311.
october 20, 2023: tiffany thorndike gets check for $157,000.00 as “severance,” from the city of davenport.
october 20, 2023: samantha torres gets check for $140,500.00 as “severance,” from the city of davenport.
october 27, 2023: mayor matson is, “unavailable” to debate the issues with his opponent ken croken, who posts on his blog, “wqpt-tv (pbs quad cities) has proposed a debate between the mayoral candidates in order to highlight the differences in policy and approach but davenport mayor matson is unavailable.”
november 3, 2023: attorneys for lexus and peach berry say they plan to ask jury for $50 million in building collapse case. peach was trapped in the rubble of the west wall of the davenport for hours, into the early morning hours of may 29. rescuers amputated her left leg near her hip to free her. also in the collapse, three men died and dozens of residents lost their homes and belongings.
november 7, 2023: with a voter turnout of 15.55% matson is re-elected over state representative ken croken 6,258 to 4.604.
november 13, 2023: i submit foia request for, “…any separation or settlement agreement between the city of davenport and ms. thorndike and ms. torres. also, any documentation or records relation to their separation of employment.”
november 17, 2023: “the city of davenport and city administrator corri spiegel are announcing a transition in leadership, effective jan. 2, 2024.”
november 17, 2023: i submit a foia for, “any and all documents or written correspondence, and recorded (open or closed) executive council sessions relating to corrine spiegel's employment and termination/separation with the city of davenport from july 1, 2023 to november 17, 2023.”
november 20, 2023: city attorney warner announces retirement. “warner’s retirement comes less than a week after the city announced what it calls a “transition in leadership”: that city administrator corri spiegel would no longer serve in that position. her last day will also be jan. 2.” the news release states in part, “over the years, warner wrote or helped draft many state laws related to cities that governors of both major parties signed. in 2002, he worked with the lowa attorney general’s office to develop real estate contract sales disclosures to assist buyers in understanding the true terms of the transaction as a consumer protection measure. in 2004, warner drafted lowa code §657a.10b and several other related state code provisions that allowed cities to obtain ownership of abandoned and nuisance properties through court action and other avenues. in 2015, warner drafted legislation and started a push for the state to increase immunity for cities related to recreational activities generally, and in particular sledding, that resulted in legislation that provided the protection. in 2017, warner was involved in drafting legislation requiring individuals being held for certain crimes involving a gun to be seen by a magistrate or judge before being released or having a bond amount set. in 2022, warner drafted a law that became lowa code §123.56 that strengthened a city’s ability to deal with alcohol establishments that have become public safety nuisances through court action.”
december 1, 2023: in response to the foia that i submitted on november 17, 2023, assistant corporation counsel brian heyer’s provides spiegel’s employment contracts and separation agreement. heyer’s letter doesn’t mention the existence of spiegel’s demand letter, which is now the subject of the city of davenport vs. sidran lawsuit.
december 4, 2023: heyer sends an email to the mayor, city council, merritt and attorney brett marshall at lane and waterman that reads in part: “on the advice of outside counsel, corporation counsel warner was placed on leave. this is a personnel matter so it should not be discussed.”
december 5, 2023: judge agrees with former alderman derek cornette in lawsuit against city of davenport; city appeals to iowa supreme court. “this is a close case. city council removal proceedings are not judicial in nature, they do not need to abide by every nicety of the law court. but, in this case, the council failed to provide the irreducible minimum of due process,” seventh judicial court judge henry w. latham wrote in his 16-page ruling.
december 24, 2023 10:26 pm: spiegel and warner photographed together at christmas eve party. the image is posted on facebook.
january 2, 2024: corrin spiegel gets electronic funds transfer for $1,000,000.00 from city of davenport.
january 11, 2024: dr. allen l. diercks files lawsuit against the city of davenport, the city council of the city of davenport and thomas d. warner. diercks is asking that, “warner’s actions in signing the three contracts and the council’s actions to “ratify” these three contracts on december 13, 2023 were each illegal, ultra vires, erroneous and void,” and that the court, “declare that the city shall take legal action to clawback all monetary payments made to spiegel, thorndike and torres.”
january 12, 2024: corrin spiegel gets $600,000.00 check for severance from the city of davenport.
january 23, 2024: iowa state auditor rob sand announces investigation into the millions of dollars in settlements davenport recently made with public employees. at issue here: the deals were made in secret and disclosed only after they’d been signed.
january 25, 2024: in response to foia request #22-2024 for, “any complaints made to the city of davenport human resources department by tiffany thorndike, samantha torres and corrine spiegel,” assistant city attorney mallory bagby denies my foia request.
january 25, 2024: i submit a foia request for, “any complaints, demand letters or negotiations sent to the city of davenport’s legal department by tiffany thorndike, samantha torres or corrine [sic] spiegel.” in response to a previous foia, the city of davenport supplied me with the thorndike and torres demand letters. however, the city has repeatedly refused to give up the spiegel demand letter.
february 3, 2024: davenport mayor mike matson announced rule changes regarding public comment and live streaming during council meetings… matson says staff will ‘edit out defamatory’ comments made toward public officials from the livestream, at the legal team’s discretion. the allotted time for residents to give open-ended comments will be cut from five minutes to three minutes.
february 14, 2024: 8:38 am: i write an email to mr. brian krup, city of davenport deputy city clerk, reminding him that the city is now in violation of iowa state code 22.8.d and has not yet replied to my foia for corri spiegel’s demand letter.
february 14, 2024: the city of davenport sues me because i requested a copy of the spiegel demand letter.
february 15, 2024: brett marshall, attorney at lane & waterman, writes to mallory merritt, interim city administrator, “mallory, by way of an update, we filed the declaratory judgment action with the court yesterday requesting that the court tell us whether corri’s demand letter is a confidential record under chapter 22… the lawsuit names mr. sidran as a defendant…”
february 15, 2024: city of davenport issues statement that, “dr. sidran was named as a defendant only because he has requested copies of the records in question.” as the defendant in this lawsuit and as the author of this timeline, i feel obliged to say, “wtf?!” i am being sued because i had the audacity to insist the city government be transparent about how and why it spends millions of our tax payer dollars in secret under clearly questionable circumstances, and request a document? yes, that is why the city of davenport sued me.
february 18, 2024: thorndike and torres file a motion to intervene and resistance in part to expedited review. thorndike and torres are arguing that the city of davenport shouldn’t have released their demand letters to me in a previous foia.
february 19, 2024: i file my defendant’s response to plaintiff’s petition for declaratory judgment. i am defending myself pro se, which means that i don’t have an attorney but my wonderful wife, kelly, has a lot of experience as a paralegal and provides invaluable help.
february 20, 2024: i file defendant’s response to intervenor’s motion to intervene and resistance to expedited review in which i point out to the court that, “the defendant has received copies of both the torres and thorndike demand letters twice, with the latest copies of these documents having been sent and received on february 15, 2024, after this lawsuit was filed. see exhibit “c”. furthermore, the defendant knows that other davenport citizens, davenport property owners and local media have also received copies of the same documents in response to their foia requests.”
february 21, 2024: thorndike and torres file an application for protective order that requests that court enter an order placing defendant’s exhibits d and e at a security level limiting access to the parties and court.” in other words, they don’t want anybody to see their demand letters, which everybody already has a copy of.
february 22, 2024: i file defendant’s response to intervenor’s application for protective order to thorndike’s and torres’s motion to seal documents and point out to the court that, “this is not 1920 when an incriminating negative can be destroyed. it is 100 years later and all data and documents tend to replicate in the wild of the internet without the defendant’s assistance” in other words, there are too many copies of thorndike’s and torres’s demand letters out on the internet to do anything about it at this point.
february 22, 2024: iowa freedom of information council files motion to intervene (called the ‘letter’ in, now numerous, legal filings) on my behalf. the cavalry has arrived. the iowa freedom of information council argues that, “the letter (a) is a public record under iowa code § 22.1(3); it is in the possession and custody of the city of davenport as a government body as defined by iowa code § 22.1(1); (b) sidran requested it from the city of davenport as a “lawful custodian” under iowa code § 22.1(2); and (c) sidran and anyone else who requests it should receive access pursuant to iowa code § 22.4.”
###
methodist-le-bonheur-celebrates-babies-born-leap-day: 
methodist le bonheur celebrates babies born on leap day
published: feb. 29, 2024 at 5:30 pm cst|updated: feb. 29, 2024 at 9:32 pm cst
memphis, tenn. (wmc) - methodist le bonheur healthcare is celebrating the birth of at least nine babies born on this very special day that only comes once every four years.
one of those newborns is lynlee carr, who came into the world just after midnight at methodist olive branch hospital. sweet little lynlee, with her full head of hair, is expected to go home to hernando soon with her mom, amanda.
welcome to the world, lynlee!
also born thursday was rex, who was welcomed at 5:23 a.m. at methodist le bonheur germantown hospital.
happy birthday, rex!
click here to sign up for our newsletter!
click here to report a spelling or grammar error. please include the headline.
copyright 2024 wmc. all rights reserved.
###
the-long-forgotten-story-of-73-children-kidnapped-by-pirates-that-created-international-headlines: 
when 73 british, american, and scandinavian children boarded a steamboat in shanghai on january 29, 1935, little they did they know that they would soon be fated to meet a notorious band of pirates who had harassed the chinese coast for decades.
one of the last significant pirate strongholds, bias bay lies in the southern coast of guangdong province in southern china, not too far from hong kong. the bias bay pirates were led by the female pirate lai choi san, who is believed to have had thousands of chinese junk ships at her command. one such ship would cause global attention.
the pirates attack
when the steamboat known as the ss tungchow embarked from shanghai, it was expected to dock in yantai within a day, where most of its passengers — 73 kids of various ages — would be studying at the chinese inland’s missions school, also known as the chefoo school, whose purpose was to provide an education for the children of foreign missionaries and businessmen. most of those foreign families lived in shanghai, so this was a return trip for the children after visiting their respective families.
at 6pm on that tuesday night of january 29, shortly after the passengers had finished their dinner, a lone, unthreatening junk ship appeared nearby, but a commotion on deck earned the attention of the guards; a shot rang out as several passengers of the tungchow suddenly drew firearms and started barking orders. these gun-wielding assailants were pirates, and had boarded the ship in shanghai alongside other passengers. as they made their move, the junk ship came closer and rode alongside the steamboat uncontested, its hidden cannons not required.
overall, only 13 pirates total boarded the tungchow, but that’s all the manpower they needed.
mr. k. macdonald, the second engineer for the steamboat, immediately rushed out of his cabin upon hearing the alarm. he was met by the pirates, and gunfire ensued. shot in the chest, macdonald nevertheless somehow lived to tell the tale of the attack.
two of the four russian guards of the ship were also shot, including one who had fought against four of the pirates. multiple accounts claim he was still alive some 20 minutes later, but was then brutally killed. the other guard who was shot survived. the other two guards were overwhelmed and taken captive by the pirates along with the other passengers, including the children. the captives were then held in the ship’s saloon.
fool’s gold
the pirates had acted so swiftly that they had already taken the radio operator hostage, preventing any word from getting out. they had quickly taken the captain hostage also, and stormed the engine room.
one uncredited account detailed what happened next, which reveals what the pirates were after:
“ordered to unlock the door of the strong-room, the purser did so without the slightest reluctance, but so eager were the pirates to see the gold that they delayed him by trying to speed him up with nudgings of their guns. finally the heavy, burglar-proof steel door swung open, with a dismal groan which was echoed by even more dismal ones from the pirates when they saw that it contained nothing, not even a speck of dust.”
the pirates, furiously disappointed upon realizing they had been lied to, needed to decide what to do next. they could leave with only the money they took from each passenger, as well as some random loot from the ship — or they could take hostages. they decided to steer the ship south towards bias bay, which was a couple days away. with 73 children held captive, surely a significant ransom would be paid. thus, they departed the yellow sea and headed for the south china sea.
once in bias bay, they would be safe from the authorities and in their own den of pirates, including the ruthless lai choi san herself.
the tungchow disappears
when the ship was nearly a day late to arrive at its destination of yantai, the port informed authorities.
all ships were then on the lookout for the tungchow, but two days passed without a single sighting, despite the chinese and british governments reacting by sending out ships in a desperate search for the steamboat, while also informing others in the waters. the british and the chinese assumed there was a chance that if the tungchow had been taken over by pirates, then it would be headed to bias bay, but even along that sea route, there was no sign of the tungchow. it was as if the ship had completely disappeared. did it sink? did it vanish?
as it turns out, the pirates did make the tungchow disappear. no, it wasn’t magic.
once the pirates decided to stay on the ship and head to bias bay, they employed a clever plan; they painted the ship’s funnel red, and also painted over the name “ss tungchow.” they even repainted a new name, “toa maru,” onto the ship.
hence, the tungchow sailed through busy waters unspotted. it even passed numerous ships that were looking for it, including within close range of a searching british vessel; the pirates succeeded in completely disguising the ship. it no longer fit the description of the tungchow, and did not bear its name. the toa maru was not just a random name, either; it was the name of a known ship, one that had been recently restored near hong kong.
the pirate chief and the children
as the 13 pirates, led by an unnamed chief, controlled the ship and its passengers, they at least made sure everyone was fed. when one adult passenger, described as “a pompous man with a large mustache,” complained that he didn’t have enough to eat, the pirates would poke him with their guns. the man also behaved miserably towards the children, saying he believed they should all keep quiet. the pirate chief noticed that the children were rather delighted at seeing the pirates trouble the man, so he made sure to nudge him whenever he spoke as a way to keep him quiet, instead.
mr. pj duncan, the master in charge of the 73 children — and whose detailed account was cited in newspapers around the world in the following months — pointed out the unique relationship that formed between the chief and the children.
the pirate chief took a liking to the youngsters, because instead of being afraid of him, they were in awe. they had never seen a real life pirate before, and their adventurous spirits were too star-struck to understand the gravity of the situation. despite the pirates having shot three men, killing one, the children were admiring observers of a real-life pirate movie unfolding before their eyes.
the pirate chief would often grab oranges stored on the ship, and toss them to the children only. he even found candy stored on the ship, and give the children treats. he entertained them with his pirate stories, and his rather unusual upbringing of being raised by a pirate to be a pirate, which many in bias bay were. it’s likely that this pirate chief — only described as “fairly young” by duncan — never met such a delighted audience for his tales outside of bias bay.
the british navy near bias bay
a month earlier, a british carrier named hermes had stationed itself in hong kong. when authorities were notified of the missing steamboat with many british children aboard, the british navy quickly reacted, and hermes was immediately dispatched.
at noon on friday, february 1, aircraft from the hermes spotted a steamboat just outside bias bay, seemingly headed towards a location known to be a pirate den. the pilots realized it could be the tungchow in disguise, and they were right.
the pirates, upon realizing they’d been spotted, quickly hopped onto a lifeboat with two adult hostages in order to prevent the aircraft from firing. they had made off with some loot from the steamboat, also. they weren’t alerted of any aircraft search ahead of time because they had, regrettably, destroyed the tungchow’s communications. the pirates then headed for a small island nearby. upon reaching shore, they left the hostages there. once the surveilling aircraft departed, the pirates sailed away to a larger boat of their own, and raced safely to bias bay before more help arrived to take the tungchow home.
the only life lost in the affair was that of the russian guard, whose name was only published as “tchornoff.” all other passengers survived. none of the 73 children were harmed.
the pirate chief bids farewell to the children
when the pirate chief initially departed the tungchow on the lifeboat, he turned around to face the children, all 73 of whom were looking at him. he flamboyantly bowed towards them, as a theater actor might after giving a performance worthy of a standing ovation. as the lifeboat reached closer to the shore, he turned around again to offer another bow, but the children had all dashed to the other side of the tungchow in an attempt to grab the pirate chief’s sweater, which he had unintentionally left on board. in doing so, they accidentally ripped it to pieces, and thus many kept a small piece to themselves.
spared were the children from meeting the leader of all pirates, lai choi san.
was the pirate chief really going to keep the children hostages in bias bay? one account claims that the pirates had already boarded a lifeboat and had began heading to the small island before any aircraft were spotted. if true, then why leave the children there? did the children’s admiration for the pirate make him have a change of heart? one can only assume or, perhaps more accurately, believe that the tale deserves such an ending.
during the ordeal, and most especially afterwards, newspapers around the globe reported the occurrence. this article was pieced together by reading all known accounts of the incident, including detailed reports in the san francisco examiner, the pittsburgh sun-telegraph, and the liverpool daily post, amongst many other newspapers.
###
florida-auto-insurance-rates-premiums-cost-report-insurify: 
auto insurance costs to rise 7% this year after 24% hike in 2023, new report finds
tampa, fla. - auto insurance premiums in florida, already the third highest in the nation, are expected to rise again in 2024, according to a new report from insurance comparison site insurify.
"after a year of staggering rate hikes, drivers will see smaller, but still significant increases in 2024 as the insurance industry stabilizes," the report found.
read: chamberlain high school fight: hcps employee among 6 arrested following fight
florida's average annual full-coverage rate currently sits at $2,917, behind only new york's $3,374 and nevada's $2,975. when comparing the sunshine state's average rate to the u.s., florida's premiums are 44 percent higher.
"the average full-coverage insurance rate in florida is $243 per month, influenced by severe weather events that strain the state’s insurers," the report wrote. "in 2022, hurricane ian caused $109.5 billion worth of damage in florida, making it the costliest hurricane in the state’s history, according to the noaa.
already strapped insurance companies have struggled to stay profitable in the aftermath. the state now faces an insurance crisis, with multiple insurers increasing rates or halting new policies in the state. among the companies that pulled back, farmers exited florida, affecting approximately 100,000 customers, and aaa declined certain policy renewals."
the report cites rampant insurance fraud as a driving factor behind rising florida rates in 2023.
"in march, gov. ron desantis signed into law hb 837, designed to reduce frivolous lawsuits and fraud under florida’s no-fault system. the state legislature passed a bill in may to reduce auto glass fraud, which surged by 4,000% between 2011 and 2021, according to the national insurance crime bureau."
sign up: click here to sign up for the fox 13 daily newsletter
among the key trends outlined in the insurify report, researchers found nearly 62% of americans reported their car insurance rates increased in 2023, with close to 22% reporting their rates increased more than once.
the report found the most popular ways drivers are cutting costs included lowering coverage limits and increasing deductibles. however, 45% reported they did not take any steps to reduce their premiums.
###
a-68412409: 
navalny buried at moscow cemetery after prison deathpublished march 1, 2024last updated march 1, 2024
thousands of people turned out in moscow for the funeral of russian opposition politician alexei navalny on friday.
many carried flowers and shouted support for the man who was one of president vladimir putin's fiercest critics.
russian security forces maintained a significant presence at the church of the icon of the mother of god soothe my sorrows, a russian orthodox church, and the borisovskoye cemetery, where navalny was laid to rest.
navalny died at the age of 47 under mysterious circumstances during his imprisonment at a remote prison camp on february 16.
support for the prominent putin critic
earlier, as his coffin was carried into the church by four pallbearers, some outside chanted: "navalny, navalny!" people also shouted, "you weren't afraid, neither are we!" and later "no to war!"
some people openly protested against russian president vladimir putin shouting "russia without putin!" "putin is a murderer!" "russia will be free!"
following the service, his coffin was again carried out of the church to applause and more chanting from the crowds as the short journey to the cemetery began.
a photo from inside the church showed an open casket with navalny's body covered with red and white flowers, as his mother, wearing a black headscarf and with a candle in one hand, sat alongside his father nearby.
navalny's wife, yulia navalnaya, who did not return to russia for the funeral, posted a video tribute to her husband on social media thanking him for "26 years of absolute happiness."
western diplomats, including german ambassador alexander graf lambsdorff, us ambassador lynn tracy and french ambassador pierre levy also attended the service.
boris nadezhdin and yekaterina duntsova, anti-war politicians who had attempted to run against putin in this month's presidential election but were not allowed on the ballot, also attended the funeral.
nadezhdin told dw that navalny's death was a tragedy and emphasized that his name is still "symbolic" for millions of russians: "look at the queue waiting here to say goodbye to him."
in a telegram message, duntsova wrote, "he will never see spring again, because here, where he left, he got winter and the permafrost of the arctic circle, and there, where he is going, there will only be eternal summer."
on social media, german chancellor olaf scholz praised "couragious russians" who turned out to pay their respects to navalny, while the eu's top diplomat, josep borrell, said that "navalny's beliefs will not disappear."
more than a quarter of a million people watched the events on navalny's youtube channel, which is blocked inside russia.
kremlin threats
a crowd of thousands marched from the church to the nearby borisovskoye cemetery after the funeral service.
"we won't forget you!" and "forgive us!" some mourners shouted as the coffin arrived for burial.
some 400 mourners have been detained at navalny memorials since his death, rights organization ovd-info has said, but no arrests were reported on friday despite warnings from the kremlin.
"any unauthorized gatherings will be in violation of the law and those who participate in them will be held responsible," spokesman dmitry peskov was quoted as saying by russian state media agency tass.
according to the rights monitoring group ovd-info, russian police detained at least 67 people in 16 towns across the country at tributes to navalny. ovd-info said 18 people were detained in the siberian city of novosibirskto and added that six people had been detained in moscow.
navalny's family struggled for his burial
russian authorities handed over navalny's body to his mother days after his death following repeated demands. his mother refused to hold a burial in secret.
navalny's team has alleged that they had been looking for a place to bury his body, but russian authorities created hurdles in the process.
navalny's team has alleged that he was murdered at the behest of putin as the critic was likely to be freed in a potential prisoner swap.
while navalny's allies have not provided any evidence to support their allegations, they have vowed to seek clarity about his death.
meanwhile, the accusations have been dismissed by russia and his death certificate states that navalny died of natural causes.
lo,kb,mfi/sms (afp, ap, dpa, reuters)
###
best-fish-fries-america: 
two of america’s best fish fries are in western new york
the lent season is in full swing and many people will be heading out to grab a fish fry tonight for lunch or dinner.
did you know that western new york has some of the best fish fries in the entire country?
feel good mornings with dave fields
mashed.com recently came out with their list of the "best fish fries in america" and two restaurants from western new york made the list.
with the 40 days of lent starting on ash wednesday, february 14th, and going until thursday, march 28th, there will be plenty of people looking to grab a delicious fish fry.
here are the two western new york restaurants that made the list of america's best fish fry.
apple granny - lewiston, new york
located near niagara falls, apple granny is known to not only eat locals but also the many tourists who come to visit the falls. apple granny has been around for a long time, starting as a general store in 1830.
wiechec's - buffalo, new york
while buffalo is known as the home of the original chicken wing, it is also home to an amazing place for a friday fish fry. wiechec's is one of the many places in western new york that serve up a fish fry that hangs over the plate.
if you are now in the mood for an amazing fish fry the good news is that there is probably an amazing fish fry place close to you.
check out some places to grab one today.
western new yorkers name their favorite place for fish fries
gallery credit: dave fields
20 essential fish fry places in western new york for 2024
top 10 capital region places to get a fish fry [ranked]
gallery credit: google maps-facebook pages
###
kpg-stampin-iban-baru-hall-repaired-with-rtp-fund-from-rep-completed: 
kuching (march 2): the village hall of kampung stampin iban baru here was handed back to its village security and development community (jkkk) following the successful completion of upgrading and repair works.
this project was made possible through the rural transformation programme (rtp) funding of rm100,000 from kota sentosa assemblyman wilfred yap.
the project contract covers the construction of a kitchen, toilets, store room and general repairs.
yap, along with officers from the public works department (jkr), the implementing agency; was present at kampung stampin iban baru in the stampin resettlement scheme yesterday to officially witness the return of the village hall to the jkkk of kampung stampin iban baru for their management and routine maintenance.
the residents of kampung stampin iban had previously sought assistance from yap, as their village hall lacked essential facilities such as toilets, kitchen and storage room.
they said the hall needed to be well-equipped as it is used as a venue for festive, cultural and social events as well as community meetings, thereby fostering unity among the residents.
in his brief speech, yap expressed gratitude to the jkr officers and the contractor for completing the project on schedule.
he urged the residents to steadfastly support the present state government led by the visionary premier datuk patinggi tan sri abang johari tun openg.
“this commitment is crucial to ensuring sarawak stay on course to achieve the goals of economic prosperity, social inclusivity and sustainability outlined in sarawak’s post covid-19 development strategy 2030,” he said, reminding them that political stability in a multi-racial and multi-religious society is crucial to transform sarawak into a high income and developed region by 2030.
yap said he remained committed to securing more state development funding for improving the neglected infrastructure in kota sentosa constituency to uplift the standard of living and improve the quality of life of all the communities.
also present were kampung stampin iban baru jkkk members penghulu jakup buan and tuai rumah christopher chaong.
###
organizers-look-ahead-after-holding-final-coyote-squirrel-hunting-contests-in-new-york: 
for a limited time, you can get full access to breaking news, all original outdoor news stories and updates from the entire great lakes region and beyond, the most up-to-date fishing & hunting reports, lake maps, photo & video galleries, the latest gear, wild game cooking tips and recipes, fishing & hunting tips from pros and experts, bonus web content and much, much more, all on your smartphone, tablet or desktop for just a buck per month!
some restrictions apply. not valid with other promotions. $1 per month for 6 months (you will be billed $6) and then your subscription will renew at standard subscription rates. for more information see terms and conditions. this offer only applies to outdoornews.com and not for any outdoor news print subscriptions. offer valid thru 3/31/23.
already a subscriber to outdoornews.com? click here to login.
###
driver-dies-head-on-crash-antioch-pike-overpass: 
driver dies in head-on crash on antioch pike overpass
police said the driver was speeding when they crossed into oncoming traffic.
nashville, tenn. (wsmv) - one person is dead, and two others are injured after a crash on antioch pike saturday morning.
the metro nashville police department said the driver of a honda accord was speeding down the overpass of interstate 24 when they crossed into oncoming traffic and hit a ford explorer at around 3:30 a.m.
the honda’s driver, identified by police as 22-year-old jhon vasquez, was taken to the hospital, where he died.
the driver, 44-year-old robert baldwin, and the passenger of the ford suffered non-life-threatening injuries. baldwin had three outstanding warrants and will be taken into custody after being released from the hospital.
charges for driving on a revoked license and financial responsibility will be added to the existing charges.
toxicology testing will be conducted on vasquez to determine if impairment was a factor in the crash.
copyright 2024 wsmv. all rights reserved.
###
republicans-in-idaho-missouri-and-michigan-will-18699575.php: 
columbia, mo. (ap) — former president donald trump continued his march toward the gop nomination on saturday, winning caucuses in idaho and missouri and sweeping the delegate haul at a party convention in michigan.
trump earned every delegate at stake on saturday, bringing his count to 244 compared to 24 for former u.n. ambassador nikki haley. a candidate needs to secure 1,215 delegates to clinch the republican nomination.
the next event on the republican calendar is sunday in the district of columbia. two days later is super tuesday, when 16 states will hold primaries on what will be the largest day of voting of the year outside of the november election. trump is on track to lock up the nomination days later.
advertisement
article continues below this ad
the steep odds facing haley were on display in columbia, missouri, where republicans gathered at a church to caucus.
more news
seth christensen stood on stage and called on them to vote for haley. he wasn't well received.
another caucusgoer shouted out from the audience: “are you a republican?”
advertisement
article continues below this ad
an organizer quieted the crowd and christensen finished his speech. haley went on to win just 37 of the 263 republicans in attendance in boone county.
here's a look at saturday's contests:
advertisement
article continues below this ad
michigan republicans at their convention in grand rapids began allocating 39 of the state’s 55 gop presidential delegates. trump won all 39 delegates allocated.
but a significant portion of the party’s grassroots force was skipping the gathering because of the lingering effects of a monthslong dispute over the party's leadership.
trump handily won michigan’s primary this past tuesday with 68% of the vote compared with haley’s 27%.
michigan republicans were forced to split their delegate allocation into two parts after democrats, who control the state government, moved michigan into the early primary states, violating the national republican party’s rules.
advertisement
article continues below this ad
voters lined up outside a church in columbia, home to the university of missouri, before the doors opened for the caucuses. once they got inside, they heard appeals from supporters of the candidates.
“every 100 days, we’re spending $1 trillion, with money going all over the world. illegals are running across the border,” tom mendenall, an elector for trump in 2016 and 2020, said to the crowd. he later added: “you know where donald trump stands on a lot of these issues.”
christensen, a 31-year-old from columbia who came to the caucus with his wife and three children age 7, 5, and 2, then urged republicans to go in a new direction.
advertisement
article continues below this ad
“i don’t need to hear about mr. trump’s dalliances with people of unsavory character, nor do my children,” christensen said to the room. “and if we put that man in the office, that’s what we’re going to hear about all the time. and i’m through with it.”
supporters quickly moved to one side of the room or the other, depending on whether they favored trump or haley. there was little discussion between caucusgoers after they chose a side.
this year was the first test of the new system, which is almost entirely run by volunteers on the republican side.
the caucuses were organized after gop gov. mike parson signed a 2022 law that, among other things, canceled the planned march 12 presidential primary.
advertisement
article continues below this ad
lawmakers failed to reinstate the primary despite calls to do so by both state republican and democratic party leaders. democrats will hold a party-run primary on march 23.
trump prevailed twice under missouri's old presidential primary system.
last year, idaho lawmakers passed cost-cutting legislation that was intended to move all the state’s primaries to the same date in may. but the bill inadvertently eliminated the presidential primaries entirely.
advertisement
article continues below this ad
the republican-led legislature considered holding a special session to reinstate the presidential primaries but failed to agree on a proposal in time, leaving both parties with presidential caucuses as the only option.
"i think there’s been a lot of confusion because most people don’t realize that our legislature actually voted in a flawed bill,” said jessie bryant, who volunteered at a caucus site near downtown boise. “so the caucus is really just the best-case scenario to actually get an opportunity to vote for a presidential candidate and nominate them for the gop.”
one of those voters was john graves, a fire protection engineer from boise. he said the caucus was fast and easy, not much different from idaho’s usual republican primary. he anticipated the win would go to trump.
“it’s a very conservative state, so i would think that trump will probably carry it quite easily,” graves said. “and i like that.”
advertisement
article continues below this ad
the democratic caucuses aren’t until may 23.
the last gop caucuses in idaho were in 2012, when about 40,000 of the state’s nearly 200,000 registered republican voters showed up to select their preferred candidate.
___
cooper reported from phoenix. associated press writers rebecca boone in boise, idaho, and joey cappelletti in lansing, michigan, contributed to this report.
advertisement
article continues below this ad
###
firefighters-face-tough-weather-conditions-battling-largest-wildfire-in-texas-history: 
saturday, march 2nd 2024, 11:51 am
firefighters battling the largest wildfire in texas history face increasingly difficult weather conditions on saturday.
the smokehouse creek fire that began monday has killed at least two people, left a charred landscape of scorched prairie, dead cattle and destroyed as many as 500 structures, including burned-out homes, in the texas panhandle.
watch live: news 9 6 p.m. newscast 3/2/2024
the national weather service in amarillo has issued a red flag warning for the entire panhandle from late saturday morning through midnight sunday after rain and snow on thursday allowed firefighters to contain a portion of the fire.
"a combination of strong winds, low relative humidity and warm temperatures will create favorable weather for rapid fire growth and spread," according to the weather service's forecast.
"critical fire weather conditions are expected to return ... as winds out of the southwest gust to 40 to 45 mph and humidity drops below 10 percent," the forecast said, with a high temperature of 75 degrees f (24 degrees c).
the fire, which has merged with another fire and crossed the state line into western oklahoma, has burned more than 1,700 square miles (4,400 square kilometers) and was 15% contained, the texas a&m forest service said friday.
the cause of the fire remains under investigation, although strong winds, dry grass and unseasonably warm weather fed the flames.
"everybody needs to understand that we face enormous potential fire dangers as we head into this weekend," republican gov. greg abbott said friday after touring the area. "no one can let down their guard. everyone must remain very vigilant."
two women were confirmed killed by the fires this week. but with flames still menacing a wide area, authorities haven't yet thoroughly searched for victims or tallied homes and other structures damaged or destroyed.
two firefighters were injured battling the flames in oklahoma. one suffered a heat-related injury and the other was injured when the brush pumper he was riding in struck a tanker truck as the two were heading to fight the fire near gage.
both firefighters are expected to recover.
texas agriculture commissioner sid miller said individual ranchers could suffer devastating losses due to the fires, but predicted the overall impact on the texas cattle industry and consumer beef prices would be minimal. the fires are leaving "dead animals everywhere," texas rep. ronny jackson said in a video update on wednesday.
dozens of texas counties have been under a burn ban since earlier in the week, according to the texas a&m forest service.
march 2nd, 2024
march 15th, 2024
march 15th, 2024
march 15th, 2024
march 15th, 2024
march 15th, 2024
march 15th, 2024
###
fishermen-possible-spy-balloon-fbi-alaska: 
commercial fishermen off the coast of alaska have found what officials are concerned could be another spy balloon and are bringing it to shore with them, three sources familiar with the matter told cnn.
fbi agents will meet the fishing vessel when it comes into port, which is expected to be sometime over the weekend. the bureau will then transport the unknown object to the fbi lab in quantico, virginia, to be analyzed, as has been done with previous surveillance balloons.
the fishmen shared photographs of the object with law enforcement upon encountering it, the sources said. all three sources emphasized that it wasn’t clear exactly what the object was and that it may not be a balloon at all — but that the fbi determined that it was similar enough in appearance to a foreign-government owned surveillance balloon that it warranted further investigation.
the fbi said in a statement friday night it is “aware of debris found off the coast of alaska by a commercial fishing vessel. we will work with our partners to assist with the logistics of the debris recovery.”
cnn was unable to identify the fishing vessel.
the existence of high-altitude surveillance balloons burst into us consciousness last year, when a chinese spy balloon appeared to blow off course and transited across the continental us. that balloon entered us territory through alaskan airspace.
the us assessed that the spy balloon was part of an extensive surveillance program run by the chinese military, as cnn reported at the time. the balloon fleet, according to us officials, had conducted at least two dozen missions over at least five continents in recent years.
china appeared to suspend the program following the episode, and it’s not clear whether it has been restarted. taiwan in january accused beijing of flying multiple balloons through its airspace.
the biden administration ultimately shot down the balloon that flew over the us last february. following the incident, the us widened the aperture of its radar systems so that it could better detect objects traveling above a certain altitude and at certain speeds. the aim was to fix a “domain awareness gap” that had allowed three other suspected chinese spy balloons to transit the continental united states undetected under the trump administration, gen. glen vanherck, commander of us northern command and north american aerospace defense command, said at the time.
the more sensitive radar systems have allowed the us military to spot more unidentified objects in us airspace. there were three additional shootdowns of unidentified high-altitude objects in the weeks following the chinese balloon incident. just last week, the north american aerospace defense command sent fighter jets to intercept and examine a small balloon over the southwest, drifting east. norad later said in a statement that the balloon was “likely a hobby balloon” that posed no threat.
the pentagon had said that the chinese surveillance balloon did not collect intelligence while flying over the country, but us intelligence agencies did find that it used an american internet service provider to send short, periodic transmissions of data related to navigation and location back to china, according to a us official.
the network connection was not used to transmit intelligence back to china, according to the official. the balloon stored that information for later, including imagery and other data, which the us has since been able to study.
this story has bene updated with additional reporting.
cnn’s hannah rabinowitz contributed to this report.
###
John-Travolta-cozy-pajamas-balcony-Rio-Janeiro.html: 
john travolta steps out on his balcony in a cozy pajama set as he enjoys an early morning in rio de janeiro
john travolta was spotted stepping out on his balcony in ipanema in rio de janeiro, brazil, on saturday morning.
the 70-year-old actor looked cozy and comfortable in a black pajama set as he took in the morning sights and sounds of the beachfront neighborhood in the tropical paradise.
he sported a clean-shaven head and rugged facial hair, a look he has favored in recent years.
the pulp fiction star was spotted holding his cell phone in a brown leather wallet case as he looked down from his balcony.
john travolta was seen on his balcony in ipanema in rio de janeiro, brazil, on saturday morning. the actor, 70, looked cozy and comfortable in a black pajama set as he took in the morning sights and sounds of the beachfront neighborhood in the tropical paradise
he was later seen stepping out of his hotel after an outfit change.
he sported a dark button-down top with black pants and a pair of stylish sunglasses as he got into a vehicle.
he rang in another decade on february 18 with a moving tribute written by his daughter ella bleu travolta.
the 23-year-old actress shared a childhood photo of herself with her father.
she wrote a gushing birthday message in her caption: 'happy birthday to the man who is always by my side and who is always bringing light and beauty into this world.
'i love you to the moon and back,' she added.
the grease alumnus left an adorable comment in response, along with a heart emoji.
'and i always will be[,] ella my baby girl,' he wrote.
as per usual, he sported a clean-shaven head and a beard. the pulp fiction star held his cell phone in a brown leather wallet case as he looked down from his balcony
he was later seen stepping out of his hotel after an outfit change. he sported a dark button-down top with black pants and a pair of stylish sunglasses as he got into a vehicle
she is one of three children travolta shares with his late wife kelly preston.
travolta and the actress tied the knot in 1991 and welcomed their eldest son jett a year later.
he tragically passed away after suffering a seizure at the age of 16 in 2009.
they welcomed benjamin a year later.
in july 2020, preston died at the age of 57 after battling breast cancer.
travolta also shared a video of his youngest son hitting the slopes during their family ski trip to celebrate his birthday.
travolta celebrated his 70th birthday on february 18. he rang in another decade with a moving tribute from his daughter ella bleu travolta. the 23-year-old actress shared a childhood photo of herself with her father and wrote a sweet message to him
she is one of three children travolta shares with his late wife kelly preston. he is also father to son benjamin, 13
his eldest son jett tragically passed away at the age of 16 after suffering a seizure in 2009
he also posted a clip to his instagram stories of himself blowing out the candles on his birthday cake. while he enjoyed a slice of cake, his dog sat on his lap and licked his face
travolta also shared a video of his youngest son hitting the slopes during their family ski trip to celebrate his birthday. 'this was my favorite birthday gift today,' he wrote about benjamin. 'seeing my son ben ski to a new level! i'm so proud of him'
he shares three children with his late wife kelly preston. the pair were married for nearly two decades before her tragic death at 57 in 2020; seen in 1997
'this was my favorite birthday gift today,' he wrote about his 13-year-old son benjamin. 'seeing my son ben ski to a new level! i'm so proud of him.'
he also posted a clip to his instagram stories of himself blowing out the candles on his birthday cake.
while he enjoyed a slice of cake, his dog sat on his lap and licked his face.
'birthday kiss from peanut,' he wrote alongside the funny clip.
###
labour-criticises-lee-andersons-appearance-at-tory-fundraiser-with-liz-truss: 
labour said it “beggars belief” that lee anderson reportedly attended a conservative fundraiser with former prime minister liz truss, despite currently being suspended as a tory mp.
a report in the daily express suggested mr anderson was at a dinner to raise money for bassetlaw mp brendan clarke-smith on friday.
the former tory deputy chairman is said to have been given a standing ovation by those in attendance, with ms truss, according to an anonymous onlooker cited by the newspaper, saying, “who is this de-whipped tory?” as she greeted him.
the express published a photo which it says shows mr anderson, ms truss and mr clarke-smith posing together at the fundraiser.
labour has urged prime minister rishi sunak to ban mr anderson from raising funds for the tories while he is without the party whip.
mr anderson, an outspoken mp in the ‘red wall’ — labour’s traditional heartlands across the midlands and north of england where the tories made gains during the 2019 election — has refused to apologise for the remarks despite mr sunak labelling them “wrong”.
the former labour councillor has also refused to rule out potentially standing for reform uk, the former brexit party, at the next election.
jonathan ashworth, labour’s shadow paymaster general, said: “it beggars belief that, far from being suspended from the tories as rishi sunak told us, here he is: lee anderson, parading around the north notts rubber chicken circuit with none other than liz truss.
“given rishi sunak deems mr anderson as unfit to be a tory mp, he now needs to bar him from fundraising for the tory party.
“unless he takes action, rishi sunak will again be exposed as weaker than ever, and out of control of his chaotic, divided party.”
ms truss had been due to speak about her brief tenure in no 10 in 2022, including the passing of queen elizabeth ii, before her mini-budget helped send the economy tumbling, leading to her being ousted after just 44 days in office.
labour has previously called for ms truss to have the tory whip removed after her attendance at the right-wing conservative political action conference in the us.
while at the event last month, she claimed her efforts to cut taxes were “sabotaged” by the “deep state”.
the former tory leader later took part in an interview with steve bannon, who served as a senior white house aide to former republican us president donald trump, and remained silent as he hailed british far-right figure tommy robinson a “hero”.
mr sunak on friday, in an address to the nation from downing street, warned that extremist forces in britain were “trying to tear us apart”.
he said islamist extremists and far-right groups “are spreading a poison” in the uk as he called for unity and social cohesion.
###
i-developed-cancer-on-my-legs-after-insect-bite-double-amputee-businessman: 
senior citizen and businessman, amidu oyebanji, whose legs were amputated after being diagnosed with kaposi sarcoma, shares his story with ajibade omape
what is your background?
my name is akande amidu oyebanji, i am from oyo state, where i was born and got all my education. i was born in ibadan on april 27, 1967. i am from a family of muslims.
why were your legs amputated?
i was diagnosed with a type of cancer called kaposi sarcoma by doctors at the university college hospital, ibadan, and i was advised by the doctors that if i wanted to live, my leg had to be cut off because it was infected with kaposi sarcoma. at the time, i had an insect bite on my left leg and it was that leg that was first cut off; however, my right leg got amputated almost three years later after the same symptoms resurfaced.
in your video on social media, you mentioned that you suffered an insect bite on your toe. what happened after that?
about six years ago, i had an insect bite on the toe of my left leg; it was tiny just like when someone gets bitten by a mosquito, and it was not painful so i did not pay attention to it and i continued with my work and life was going smoothly; it later became a little boil on the toe and grew bigger as time went by. i then decided to pop it with a pin hoping that the pus and blood in it would come out so that it could heal perfectly. days later, i noticed that the injury was a little damp so i started to nurse it and clean it up. i went to baptist hospital in ogbomoso where i was given medications to use and also taught how to clean it up.
after a while, my wife, who is also a health worker, noticed that the surface was getting wider so she advised me to go to the hospital because the wound was not healing. i went back to the hospital where i saw a young doctor who was a junior doctor in the department, who advised me to go to a bigger hospital to get proper care. i was confused as to why but he advised that i either go to the teaching hospital in ilorin or the university college hospital in ibadan; i decided to go to ibadan since that was where i have lived all my life, so the doctor wrote a referral letter for me that i took to the uch where we conducted a series of tests, samples were taken from the open wound and taken to the laboratory.
it took three months before the result was out and that was when i was told that i had kaposi sarcoma. my family was sad, so we opted for local remedies, consultation, and herbs to treat it for about four to five months, but there was no solution so i went back to the hospital where i was advised that the leg would have to be amputated if i wanted to save my life. i agreed saying if that was the will of god for me, so be it. on september 29, 2019, my left leg was amputated as a result of kaposi sarcoma. after it had been amputated, i received treatment and started using crutches; i was told not to come to the hospital again because my system was clean.
when it was about two years and seven months after my left leg was amputated, the second leg started showing similar symptoms to the first; i sought traditional treatment again to find out if it was the same issue as the first, but all efforts didn’t yield the desired result, so we went back to the uch where they diagnosed kaposi sarcoma and the doctors said they would have to cut off the second leg to save my life, i agreed and that was how the second leg was amputated on september 3, 2022.
what job were you doing before losing your legs?
i am a businessman, and i used to travel to neighbouring countries dealing in foodstuffs like rice, beans, and so on. i have not been able to do business again because mobility is one of the issues that i am facing. i used to go from lagos to cotonou and other neighbouring countries. i went to cotonou through the lagos route and i ended up in sokoto; it was part of the business
what about your wife and children?
my wife is very fine; she has stood by me ever since this incident occurred; she did not leave me to myself, and my children as well have been very supportive. i thank god that they are all in good health and they have been with me ever since. they are the reason i still have hope.
have your siblings supported you when you lost your legs?
yes, my siblings have supported me in every way. even my younger ones are instrumental in my upkeep and i’m very grateful to them for their support.
you mentioned that you were diagnosed with kaposi sarcoma, how did you get it?
well, like i said earlier, my left foot just started getting bigger after the insect bite. i have never broken a bone or nail since i was born, i am always very careful so i am sure i did not contract it from an infected person although, according to the doctors, i can say that the kaposi sarcoma was as a result of the wound on my foot, which was from an insect bite, and at the time i got bit by the insect, i did not even feel it so i had no idea when i got bitten; the opening was as tiny as that of a mark made by an injection needle.
what kind of job do you hope to do now?
the first thing is to get properly taken care of because there is nothing on the ground at the moment; if you remember from the video on the internet, i mentioned that i wanted to buy artificial legs and the legs will cost about n3m; i also need to go through physiotherapy, which will also cost a lot. i have been blessed by god; i previously owned a truck that i once gave to a driver, but at the moment, i do not have it again because when the sickness came, i spent everything i had on it, and there is nothing left right now; i am just grateful that my wife can support me as i can’t do anything for now.
have you ever attempted suicide because of what happened?
no, i have never thought of it; i can never do such a thing. i love my wife and i love my children as well so i cannot even dream of it. i can’t leave them to suffer in this world, however, because of my human nature i feel sad sometimes. but i can’t do such a thing to myself, so even if i don’t have money, i have my wife and children. i don’t fall sick often, although about seven days after the ramadan fasting, i usually have malaria, but once my wife gives me chloroquine injection and paracetamol and i fall asleep, i would be alright after a few days and it could take till the following year before i fall sick again. but i only take this as my fate.
as a result of your condition, will you say you are depressed?
to be very honest, i am human so i feel sad sometimes when i think about it. sometimes i want to go out but i can’t because i have no legs to move; i have clothes in my wardrobe that i cannot wear because i cannot go anywhere, i just shuffle between two pieces of clothes because there is nowhere i am wearing my other clothes too; so yes, i feel sad sometimes when i also remember the places i have travelled to for business
you mentioned in your video that you needed to wash your internal organs, is it as a result of the cancer?
at the moment, i am no longer in control of my body, so i am always acting on the instructions of the doctors. according to the doctors, the cancer did not spread past my legs so i am safe; however, cancer is a disease that cannot be predicted. i had 10 chemotherapy sessions, but the doctors said physiotherapy is important for me to be rest assured that my system is free of the cancer.
how have your friends and other people treated you since your legs were cut off?
honestly, people change with time. some of the people, whom i used to do business with and who even owe me, and have seen my present condition, do not even respond to my calls again; most times when you call these people, all you will hear are prayers and they don’t even wish to pay up the money they owe; humans will always be humans.
how do you manage to get around and do things? do you have someone assisting you?
i mostly crawl; i don’t even have a wheelchair. i can’t even get a wheelchair because it will require someone to be available to assist me, but my children have different lives to live. coping is not easy but my wife tries her best and every other person around like my children and siblings also try their best to support me, that is one of the reasons why i posted a video on the internet, just like people advised that i speak up hoping that i could get help.
have you been cured of kaposi sarcoma?
only god knows what we don’t know; according to doctors, cancer is a disease that cannot be predicted, and they have also said that there are no signs of cancer in my system again. however, the doctors advised that i go for physiotherapy so that i can thoroughly rid my body of it and be sure that it is completely out of my system. but yes, there is no cancer in my system anymore as i speak to you.
you mentioned that you lost about 500 bags of rice to the customs, have you been able to get them back?
this happened about three years ago at the time when the government said that we should not import rice into the country and there was no other way for us to convey it; we did not steal it so we could not throw it away, and of course, there is no way the customs will return goods that they seize from you; i can say that it was part of the rice that was sold cheaply to members of the public and those goods are what we use to feed our families.
you said you needed n2m for physiotherapy, how much have you realised from that amount?
honestly, i have realised a part of the money meant for physiotherapy. i have realised a total of n1,650,000 so i am left with a balance of n350,000 for the physiotherapy, i also need n3,000,000 for artifical legs so i would be able to move around.
having artificial legs will be better than a wheelchair because someone who has a wheelchair has to employ an assistant, but with the artificial legs, i will be able to move about freely and do a lot of things by myself. it will cost about n3m to get one but i have not seen anything for that one yet. getting an artificial leg will enable me to move about and get my job done efficiently.
what support do you need at the moment?
i would love people to help me get the necessary things that i need. i am not picky at the moment as beggars can’t be choosers, and i also understand the current situation of the country and how it is affecting everybody. i can’t ask people to donate money for my physiotherapy and still ask them for money to start a business, i just want help to sort out the physiotherapy bills and get the artificial legs. i just want to take good care of myself and i hope people can support me in any way that they can.
###
6d6b2658cb3dba9d: 
house prices see first annual rise in over a yearbbc.co.uk/news/business-68445223
property prices have risen on an annual basis for the first time in a year, according to the nationwide, but are still below their peak.
signs of activity have been seen in the uk housing market, with bank of england figures on thursday showing a rise in mortgage approvals.
"the decline in borrowing costs around the turn of the year appears to have prompted an uptick in the…
this story appeared on bbc.co.uk, .
###
china-cautions-on-nuclear-perils-after-putin-threats: 
china issued a warning on the perilous implications of nuclear warfare after russian president vladimir putin’s ominous declarations during his annual state of the nation address on thursday, newsweek reported.
putin escalated global anxieties by asserting that moscow’s strategic nuclear forces stand “in a state of full readiness.” he underscored the potential escalation to nuclear conflict should western nations deploy troops to ukraine, as proposed by french president emmanuel macron this week.
putin’s remarks, including veiled threats of nuclear annihilation, elicited widespread condemnation from global leaders who have long advocated against nuclear warfare during the russia-ukraine conflict.
read more at newsmax© 2024 newsmax. all rights reserved.
###
24157533.ross-urges-pro-union-voters-back-tories-election: 
douglas ross has appealed to supporters of the union to vote tactically to ditch “dud” first minister humza yousaf.
the scottish conservative leader is due to address his party’s conference in aberdeen this morning.
in his speech, he is expected to say that any pro-uk voter who wants to "kick the nationalists out" will need to back his party.
labour disagreed, with dame jackie baillie calling the tories a "gift for the snp."
read more: rishi sunak predicts tories will gain mps 'when it comes to scotland'
thanks to the defection of lisa cameron from the snp, mr ross's party currently has seven mps. senior figures in the party are confident that they can keep hold of the seats they won in 2019, and possibly even gain a handful more.
speaking at a fringe event last night, mr ross said there would be a "very different election here in scotland."
"there's a lot to be positive about in the scottish conservatives," he added. "we will be fighting to retain the seats we've got and win more. i think we can have a good night on election night."
however, the polling is grim for them.
a recent survey of 1,043 people in scotland by survation put the snp on 38%, labour on 33% and the scottish tories on 15%, their lowest level since liz truss's time in office.
in his speech, mr ross will claim that mr yousaf’s “days in office are numbered,” suggesting that a bad general election result for the snp will force him to resign.
“the knives are being sharpened, not just across the country but within his own party as well.
“even the snp are starting to realise that humza yousaf is a dud.”
mr ross will argue that if the “pro-uk majority” in key seats “unites and votes together”, then the tories can “beat the nationalists up and down scotland”.
he will insist: “we can make sure it’s not only a bad night for the snp, but a terrible night for humza yousaf.
“if we vote together in those crucial snp-scottish conservative seats, it won’t be a campervan that humza yousaf needs, it will be a removal van.”
read more: douglas ross: 'nicola sturgeon blanked me at holyrood coffee kiosk'
scottish labour deputy leader dame jackie baillie said “douglas ross and his party are out of touch, out of ideas, and quickly running out of time.”
she added: “this tory party is a disaster for working people and a gift for the snp, delivering years of political turmoil and economic misery.
“the tories and the snp have worked hand-in-hand to stoke the politics of division in an attempt to distract from their own woeful record in government.”
an snp spokesperson said: “this latest spiel from douglas ross proves he’s as out of touch with reality as he is with the people of scotland – who have not voted for a tory government in his lifetime.
“let’s not forget, douglas ross stayed silent while his tory pals in westminster drove the uk economy off a cliff, dished out dodgy ppe contracts to their pals and partied through lockdown, while the people of scotland stayed home to save lives.
“this tory uk government has been mired in corruption from the very beginning and, with latest polls showing a conservative wipe-out at the next general election, it’s clear that scotland is more than ready to boot the tories out once and for all.
“only a vote for the snp will deliver a tory-free scotland, and put scotland’s priorities first with independence.”
why are you making commenting on the herald only available to subscribers?
it should have been a safe space for informed debate, somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day, but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse.
heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment.
we are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers, who occasionally find their way onto our site, to abuse our journalists and readers. we also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of scotland's conversation with itself.
we are lucky at the herald. we are read by an informed, educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories.
that is invaluable.
we are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers, who tell us they don't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments, untruths and abuse.
in the past, the journalist’s job was to collect and distribute information to the audience. technology means that readers can shape a discussion. we look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com
comments & moderation
readers’ comments: you are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. we do not pre-moderate or monitor readers’ comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. you can make a complaint by using the ‘report this post’ link . we may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.read the rules here
###
how-humans-lost-their-tails-and-why-the-discovery-took-2-5-years-to-publish.html: 
ewen callaway in nature:
geneticist bo xia asked that question as a child and it was on his mind again a few years ago, while he was recovering from a tailbone injury during his phd at new york university (nyu) in new york city. xia and his colleagues now have an answer. the researchers identified a genetic change shared by humans and other apes that might have contributed to their ancestors’ tail loss, some 25 million years ago. mice carrying similar alterations to their genomes had short or absent tails, the researchers found — but that insight was hard won. the work was published on 28 february1: nearly 900 days after being submitted to nature and posted as a preprint, because of extra work needed to develop several strains of gene-edited mice and demonstrate that the genetic changes had the predicted effect.
“respect to the authors,” says malte spielmann, a human geneticist at kiel university in germany, who reviewed the paper for nature. “i’m incredibly excited about the fact that they’ve really pulled it off.”
the mice with no tails
unlike most monkeys, apes — including humans — and their close extinct relatives don’t have tails. their coccyx, or tailbone, is a vestige of the vertebrae that constitute a tail in other animals. finding the genetic basis for this trait wasn’t what xia, now at the broad institute of mit and harvard in cambridge, massachusetts, planned to devote his phd to. but his coccyx injury, sustained during a cab ride, reinvigorated his tail curiosity.
more here.
###
city-unveils-san-marco-street-designation-to-honor-jacksonville-firefighter-who-died-on-duty-56-years-ago: 
jacksonville, fla. – jacksonville firefighter walter w. flowers was killed on christmas day in 1968 when he was thrown from a fire truck after it was struck by a train at an atlantic boulevard crossing.
engine 13 was en route to a southside fire at the time of the accident, and flowers had been riding on the tailboard. three other firefighters were injured in the accident.
recommended videos
a bill was recently introduced through the jacksonville city council for the “fallen firefighter honorary street designation” in honor of his service.
jacksonville fire and rescue department chief powers, along with multiple city council members and mr. flowers’ family members were on hand friday morning for the unveiling of the street designation and roadway markers.
one marker is located on the southeast corner of san marco blvd. and balis place and the second marker is located in the median on atlantic blvd. and belote place.
###
fbi-raids-2-homes-nyc-231806306.html: 
fbi raids 2 homes of nyc mayor’s director of asian affairs winnie greco
- oops!something went wrong.please try again later.
[source]
fbi agents conducted searches at two residences belonging to winnie greco, a longtime associate of new york mayor eric adams.
about the raid: the morning raids took place at two of greco’s bronx properties, which are located on the same block, at around 6 a.m. on thursday. although the purpose of the searches were not revealed, they are reportedly part of an investigation in collaboration with prosecutors in the eastern district of new york, known for cases related to alleged chinese government activities in the u.s. involving diaspora control.
about greco: winnie greco, a former fundraiser for adams who now serves as his director of asian affairs, was placed on leave on thursday. the raids follow an ongoing investigation into allegations that greco sought improper benefits from her position, such as demanding free renovations on her home from a city employee, with the city's department of investigation previously opening the probe in november.
alleged ties to ccp: greco was previously alleged to be a long-time "consultant" of chinese communist party-backed organizations, including the dong guan association of america and the fujian daily southeast network. her company also allegedly received money from the propaganda department of the beijing municipal committee of the ccp, the new york post reported in september 2023. however, adams has dismissed allegations and maintains that greco is a dedicated public servant who has worked to build relationships between his administration and the asian community in new york. he labeled such insinuations as "fear-mongering" and unfounded, emphasizing her commitment to the administration and the city's residents.
trending on nextshark: video of mexican american toddler crying because she's not chinese goes viral
mayor’s statement: adams has deflected inquiries about the ongoing investigation, emphasizing that he has not faced any formal accusations of wrongdoing. fabien levy, a spokesperson for the mayor noted the administration's commitment to legal compliance and ethical standards, stating they do not comment on matters under review but will fully cooperate with any ongoing investigations.
not the first: the recent searches follow previous federal raids on associates of adams as part of a corruption investigation. in november, the fbi also raided the homes of brianna suggs, a top fundraiser for adams, and rana abbasova, who worked in the mayor's international affairs office. greco is the third aide to adams to have her home targeted by federal agents. the ongoing investigation is reportedly examining potential conspiracies involving adams' campaign and the turkish government for allegedly receiving illegal campaign contributions through straw donors.
trending on nextshark: asian restaurant slams influencer's request for free meal in exchange for exposure
download the nextshark app:
want to keep up to date on asian american news? download the nextshark app today!
###
the-iss-has-sprung-an-air-leak-but-nasa-says-theres-no-need-to-panic: 
russia's space agency said on wednesday that its section of the international space station is again suffering an air leak issue, but said the problem currently poses no threat to its crew.
"indeed, specialists are detecting an air leak on board the iss," the press service of roscosmos said on wednesday, per a translation by interfax.
"there is no threat to crewmembers or the station itself," roscosmos added.
space officials said russian crew are "regularly" working to identify and fix potential leaks on the iss, per state media agency tass.
the announcement came shortly after national american space agency iss program manager joel montalbano on the same day reported an air leak in russia's zvezda life support module during a press briefing for the new crew-8 mission.
according to montalbano, the leak is small but growing.
"there is an area at the end of the international space station that we've seen a leak. there is a small leak. we saw a leak increase about a week before the recent progress launch and docking," he said.
montalbano added that nasa was working with roscosmos on the issue and that the leak is neither affecting crew safety nor disrupting the crew-8 mission, which aims to send four astronauts to the iss.
nasa and roscosmos found an air leak in russia's side of the iss in august 2020. it was in the zvezda module, which provides critical life support like oxygen and water.
this leak source was identified in october 2020 and temporarily patched up, but another possible leak spot was found in november 2021 by russian cosmonaut pyotr dubrov.
roscosmos said in january 2022 that the "last air leak" location in the zvezda had been discovered and would be fixed.
however, the announcement on wednesday indicates that the problem has resurfaced.
russia is set to pull out of the iss after 2024, moscow said in july 2022, at a time when the us announced sanctions targeting russian leadership because of the war in ukraine.
the station has been one of the last remaining points of cooperation between roscosmos and nasa, which hopes to continue operating the aging station until 2030.
meanwhile, roscosmos said it plans to build its own space station, following the example of china's independent tiangong station.
as moscow continues to split from the west, russian space officials have questioned the reliability of the old equipment on board the iss.
this article was originally published by business insider.more from business insider:
###
paul-taylor-langfield-stud-obituary-851786: 
by stephen howard
paul taylor of the langfield riding pony & dartmoor stud sadly passed away on 8 february, after a long and debilitating illness.
paul was born in 1941 and lived a full life. in his teens, he showjumped on the yorkshire scene, but his real passion for horses and ponies grew when he purchased a dartmoor pony mare, janessa, from lady willingdon at kilbees, and she helped form the start of the highly regarded langfield stud.
paul and his wife madge bred many successful ponies, including olympia winner langfield canth. canth was later exported to australia to start a new dynasty of dartmoor ponies on the other side of the world. a riding pony star was surely langfield harvest time, who was a horse of the year show winner among many accolades.
the stud in its early days was based at todmorden, high up on the moors above paul’s beloved home town of halifax in west yorkshire. around 20 years ago, they moved to the slightly milder climate of york in north yorkshire – but from both locations the stud was highly successful and its bloodlines are very prominent in many successful ponies today.
paul was involved with a number of societies and gave his time and business acumen as a council member to both the national pony society (nps) and dartmoor pony society (dps). he played a key role in nps area 4 and was a founder member of the northern dps.
in later years, paul’s happiest times were spent watching his granddaughter lucy compete at the highest level on both dartmoor and show hunter ponies.
paul leaves two sons, david and christopher, two stepchildren, melissa and daniel, and six grandchildren, as well as his devoted wife of almost 50 years, madge, who shared his great passion for the ponies. we send them all our sincere condolences.
paul’s funeral will take place on friday, 8 march at 12 noon, in cawood, north yorkshire.
horse & hound magazine, out every thursday, is packed with all the latest news and reports, as well as interviews, specials, nostalgia, vet and training advice. find how you can enjoy the magazine delivered to your door every week, plus options to upgrade your subscription to access our online service that brings you breaking news and reports as well as other benefits.
###
energy-capital-and-powers-ecp-angola-conference-wins-association-of-african-exhibition-organizations-aaxo-roar-award-for-marketing-and-public-relations-pr-excellence: 
energy capital & power's (ecp) angola conference wins association of african exhibition organizations (aaxo) roar award for marketing and public relations (pr) excellence
the angola oil & gas conference takes place annually in luanda
we are proud to play a role in promoting angola’s oil and gas sector and look forward to continuing to drive excellence in our event
the angola oil & gas (aog) conference and exhibition (https://apo-opa.co/4945xwg) – energy capital & power’s (www.energycapitalpower.com) annual angolan event - won the association of african exhibition organizers (aaxo) roar award for marketing and pr excellence. the award celebrates excellence in the exhibitions and events industry.
uniting angolan and global stakeholders, the aog conference and exhibition was recognized for its innovative marketing and pr strategies that not only contributed to the event’s success but promoted angola’s oil and gas opportunities on a global scale.
taking place with the full support of the ministry of mineral resources, oil and gas; national oil company sonangol; the national oil, gas and biofuels agency; the african energy chamber; and the petroleum derivatives regulatory institute, aog is a platform to sign deals and advance angola’s oil and gas industry. to sponsor or participate as a delegate or exhibitor, please contact sales@energycapitalpower.com.
the aog conference and exhibition has quickly emerged to become the largest oil and gas event in angola. the success of the marketing and pr strategy for the 2023 event was clear with the participation of 2,213 industry delegates from 41 countries. over 389 companies from across the entire oil and gas value chain were also represented.
from the launch of the 2023 edition in april 2023 until the close of the event in september 2023, ecp recorded over 220,000 readers on the website, with approximately 6,000 sites visits recorded during the event week alone. additionally, 131 media outlets were in attendance at the event in luanda while over 10,800 email marketing and 28,800 online and social media impressions were recorded.
“we are proud to receive the prestigious aaxo roar award for marketing and pr excellence for the aog conference and exhibition. the award is a testament to the hard work and dedication of our team as well as the support and participation of our angolan partners and stakeholders. we are proud to play a role in promoting angola’s oil and gas sector and look forward to continuing to drive excellence in our events,” stated devi paulsen-abbott, ceo of ecp.
the fifth edition of the aog conference and exhibition (https://apo-opa.co/3p0twv6) takes place october 2-4 at centro de convencoes talatona in luanda. the event serves as a bridge connecting foreign companies and their angolan counterparts. building and expanding on discussions and deals signed at the 2023 event – seven agreements in total – the 2024 conference promises new opportunities for engagement and investment.
distributed by apo group on behalf of energy capital & power.
about energy capital & power:
ecp is the african continent’s leading investment platform for the energy sector. join us at our world-class investment-focused events in africa and worldwide. ecp’s events, reports, content and other services are built to serve the african energy community. for more information, visit www.energycapitalpower.com.
###
more-than-200-firefighters-from-across-oregon-take-part-in-winter-fire-school-training-in-salem: 
more than 200 firefighters from across oregon take part in winter fire school training in salem
salem, ore. (ktvz) -- more than 200 career and volunteer firefighters from nearly 100 fire agencies throughout oregon attended the 19th annual winter fire school at the oregon public safety academy in salem last weekend.
the two-day event was hosted by the department of public safety standards and training (dpsst) and included nine classes offered by the national fire academy, dpsst, and the city of dallas fire & ems department. attendees included firefighters from city and tribal fire departments, fire districts, and wildland firefighters.
classroom training sessions covered a wide range of topics including leadership, incident command, health and safety programs, tactical decision making, fire prevention education, and community risk reduction.
the event also included hands-on training sessions on vehicle extrication, flammable gas and liquid emergencies, extinguishing vehicle fires, forceable entry, firefighter safety and survival, pumper operator simulations, and heavy vehicle operation.
winter fire school is offered free of charge and is held over the weekend to accommodate the schedules of volunteers who comprise most of the oregon fire service.
“dpsst is proud to put on the annual winter fire school, which is the fire program’s biggest event of the year,” said kayla ballrot, dpsst’s interim fire program manager. “oregon’s firefighters will apply the knowledge gained from this weekend’s event, from hands-on classes to leadership training, to make their communities safer places to live. we received great student and instructor feedback and are already looking forward to next year.”
###
about dpsst
the mission of the department of public safety standards and training (dpsst) is to pursue excellence in training and accountability for public safety professionals. dpsst certifies and licenses police, corrections, and parole and probation officers, as well as regulatory specialists, emergency telecommunicators and medical dispatchers, criminal justice instructors, private security providers, private investigators, fire service professionals and polygraph examiners in the state of oregon. dpsst works with public and private safety agencies around the state to provide basic, leadership and specialized training at the 237-acre oregon public safety academy in salem and regionally throughout the state.
###
2024-world-civil-defence-day-over-50-csos-celebrate-nscdc-in-abuja: 
as nigeria join other 60-member nations of the international civil defence organisation (icdo) to celebrate the 2024 world civil defence day, a civil society organization stand up nigeria in collaboration with fifty other civil society organizations have applauded the nigerian security and civil defence corps (nscdc) for their continued efforts in ensuring that nigerian remain peaceful.
at a press conference in abuja on friday, the national coordinator stand up nigeria, comrade sunday attah said the corps’ dogged fight against criminal elements such as vandals, economic saboteurs and oil thieves via the application of advanced technologies is yielding unprecedented results, noting that nigerians are happy with the developments.
attah said the corps has raised the bar in its duty of maintaining peace and order, protecting and rescuing the civil population from potential danger across the country.
he said, “nscdc has shown capacity, commitment and professionalism in the discharge of its duties. the the corps has also ensured that their personnel give priority to the protection of critical national assets. it is in records that the nscdc has helped in apprehending rapists, cultists and other criminal elements.
“we are calling on nigerians home and abroad to support activities of the nscdc to enable them continue to protect the integrity of the country in terms of security”.
according to him, the nscdc has over the years shown professionalism in the discharge of their duties in the fight against insurgency, banditry.and other criminal elements across the country and believe that they will further improve the security of life and property in the country.
the civil society organizations also use the medium to congratulate the commandant general of the corps, dr. abubakar ahmed audi on his third year at the helm of affairs of the corps.
he said, leadership is about using people and resources to achieve maximum results.
he noted that a leader’s history of successes and failures makes a big difference in his credibility.
“to build trust, a leader must exemplify these qualities: competence, connection and character. people will forgive occasional mistakes based on ability, especially if they can see that you’re still growing as a leader. but they won’t trust someone who has slips in character”.
“significantly, in the heat of conflict, as a professional, audi has ensured that the nscdc has continued to remain apolitical, professional and commendably responsive in the discharge of its constitutional roles”.
“since audi’s appointment as commandant general, the nigerian security and civil defense corps has witnessed a lot of reorganization and redeployment in a bid to improve its overall operational responsiveness and professionalism”.
attah concluded that audi has substantially proved himself as a cg whose footprints are not only indelible, but have dwarfed the accomplishments of all his predecessors.
###
who-is-mohammad-ghouse-nayazi-main-accused-arrested-for-2016-karnataka-rss-workers-murder-101709429757437.html: 
who is mohammad ghouse nayazi, main accused arrested for 2016 karnataka rss worker's murder?
mohd nayazi, who was absconding from the probe agency for the past eight years was arrested by a special team of nia at the mumbai airport following a tip-off.
in a major breakthrough, the national investigative agency (nia) on friday arrested a popular front of india (pfi) member and the alleged key conspirator in the murder of karnataka rashtriya swayamsevak sangh (rss) worker r rudresh in 2016, mohammad ghouse nayazi, upon his arrival at mumbai's chhatrapati shivaji maharaj airport from tanzania's commercial port town, dar es salaam.
read here: rss leader’s murder: nia nabs key conspirator on arrival from tanzania
mohammad ghouse nayazi, who was absconding from the probe agency for the past eight years was arrested by a special team of nia at the airport following a tip-off.
who is mohammad ghouse nayazi?
mohammad ghouse nayazi is claimed to be one of the main conspirators in the 2016 murder case of prominent karnataka rss worker r rudresh. he was hacked to death by four members of the now-banned pfi in october 2016.
the murder was part of a larger conspiracy hatched by ghouse nayazi, president of the social democratic party of india (sdpi), karnataka's hebbal assembly constituency and another pfi member asim sheriff, according to the nia's press release. the duo had motivated the other four accused to kill rudresh to strike terror among the members of rss and the society. the killers were persuaded to believe that the fight against the rss was a 'holy war', it added.
ghouse, 41, a resident of rt nagar in bengaluru, fled from the country and was hiding in various locations abroad. the probe agency had also declared a reward of ₹5 lakh for providing information about him.
according to a report by indian express, ghouse nayazi was popularly known as ghouse bhai and had an indian passport which expired on in september 2021. according to the report, nayazi ghouse was overstaying on expired indian travel documentation and was deported to ahmedabad by dubai authorities to face legal action.
read here: 15 from pfi get death for killing kerala bjp leader
the gujarat anti-terror squad had first tracked the location of nayazi, following which central agencies were alerted. nayazi was located at united arab emirates (uae). the dubai authorities and the tele-identifiers located ghouse’s whereabouts via the sim cards he had obtained using indian passport.
with ghouse's arrest, all the accused--sheriff and the four assailants – mohammed sadiq, 35; waseem ahmed, 32; irfan pasha, 32; and mohammed mujeebullah, 41-- in the case have been arrested. the trial against the remaining accused persons is continuing in nia special court, bengaluru.
get current updates on india news, pm narendra modi in kerala live , electoral bonds data live , lok sabha election 2024 date along with latest news and top headlines from india and around the world.
###
heroes-among-us-air-force-flight-medical-officer-dr-george-chastain: 
heroes among us: air force flight medical officer dr. george chastain
albany, ga. (walb) - it’s time to recognize a military hero in south georgia who served our country and now serves the community.
air force flight medical officer dr. george chastain took three years out of his training during post-grad at emory to go into the air force, but little did he know his mission would change.
“i went to vietnam and i did what i was supposed to do, but there was a lot of time to do something else, or i could’ve done a lot of things,” chastain said.
however, chastain chose to visit the orphanage and regularly give needed medical aid to children. the former physician went into the air force and served two years stateside and was then sent to vietnam to serve as a flight medical officer but it was the work he did while he wasn’t in the air that impacted him most.
“it was a breath of fresh air to me as much as it was anything else because i saw kind, gentle people,” he said.
chastain was impressed by the dedication of the nuns who operated the orphanage but also how ill-equipped they were to practice medicine.
“i had to be very careful because if i told them something, that they should do it, next thing i know while i was talking they were out there doing it. i mean they just reacted that fast,” he said.
being away from his family was difficult, but he cared for the children as if they were his own.
“they meant the world to me, and for a long period of time, they were my world,” chastain said.
when dr. chastain came back home, much like many others who serve in the armed forces suffered from ptsd, one of the darkest moments in his life. but still, he clung to his faith.
“guys over there were losing their faith in their god, it helped me regain mine and that was very important to me,” chastain said.
to stay up to date on all the latest news as it develops, follow walb on facebook and x (twitter).
have a news tip or see an error that needs correction? let us know. please include the article's headline in your message.
keep up with all the latest south georgia headlines on the walb news app. click to download it now on the apple app store or the google play store. and for all things south georgia weather, click to download the walb first alert weather app on the apple app store and the google play store.
copyright 2024 walb. all rights reserved.
###
2024-03-01-shock-of-bom-teachers-earning-less-than-sh10k-monthly: 
-
usawa agenda executive director emmanuel manyasa said the payment a tutor receives speaks on their motivation to teach learners.
-
manyasa said most schools are facing the challenge of sourcing funds to pay the bom teachers.
eight in every 10 board of management teachers goes home with less than sh10,000 at the end of the month, a report has revealed.
the finding came during the launch of a report titled, “the foundational literacy and numeracy assessment (flana) report 2023" on thursday at kicd in nairobi.
the report also showed that two in every bom teacher earns between sh10,000 and sh20,000 at the end of the month.
one in 100 bom teachers earns between sh20,000 and sh30,000 monthly.
additionally, the report showed that sources of funds for payment of bom teachers mostly come from parents of the schools.
usawa agenda executive director emmanuel manyasa said the payment a tutor receives speaks on their motivation to teach learners.
manyasa said most schools are facing the challenge of sourcing funds to pay the bom teachers, who are critical to ensuring the delivery of quality education.
“the government should consider factoring in money for bom teachers because parents are not always able to. the source from which the bom teachers are paid comes from parents nationally,” manyasa said.
the report showed that sh67 in sh100 paid to bom teachers comes from parents.
sh70 in sh100 paid to bom teachers in rural areas come from parents.
"sh60 in sh100 paid to bom teachers in urban areas come from parents," the report read in part.
interestingly, only sh6.7 in sh100 paid to bom teachers comes from government capitation.
the flana report also showed that sh7 in sh100 paid to bom teachers in rural areas comes from government capitation.
government capitation only contributes to sh6.2 in sh100 paid to bom teachers in urban areas.
the reports come after usawa agenda between june and july 2023 visited 1,953 villages spread across all counties and interviewed 38,634 household heads reaching 59,201 children.
usawa agenda also visited 1,813 primary schools - both public and private and engaged with learners to find out if they were truly learning.
further, the report showed that regions with few teachers on permanent and pensionable terms have more learners staying out of school than those with more permanent teachers.
manyasa said regions like wajir with few teachers on permanent and pensionable terms have the highest number of learners out of school.
the report showed wajir county has the lowest percentage of p and p teachers constituting 63 in 100 of their teachers.
kirinyaga county has the highest percentage of p and p teachers constituting 93 in 100 of their teachers.
additionally, the report showed the percentage of school-aged children, aged six to 15 years in kenya who are out of school has increased from 7.5 per cent in 2021 to 8.5 per cent in 2023.
seven counties with the largest percentage of out-of-school children are all in the arid and semi-arid lands (asal) region with mandera county leading.
###
287-53bd257a-3026-42b1-94f0-d1518e75c7b1: 
dallas —
on friday, empower, a private company contracted by the state, will fully takeover managing the foster care system for nine north texas counties.
this will be the second phase of the transition to community-based care, which is the state’s term for private foster care, for dallas, collin, ellis, rockwall, kaufman, hunt, fannin and navarro counties. in this phase, empower, will assume full case management and placement responsibility for all of the children in the region who have been removed from their homes because of abuse and neglect and are in the state’s custody.
transitioning to a private system
in the first phase, which went into effect sept. 1, 2023, empower took over administrative payments to the child placing agencies and other providers that had had been contracted by the state to provide placement services for foster children. empower also began placing children who entered the state’s custody after sept. 1.
the self-titled “child welfare collaborative” is a network made up of large nonprofit organizations that have been providing foster care, adoption, residential treatment and behavioral health services for vulnerable children in north texas for decades. those organization, which have historically been contracted by the state of texas, will now operate under empower’s umbrella organization.
community-based care, or cbc, was introduced by texas lawmakers as a solution to the legacy state-run foster care system that’s historically been plagued with problems and is currently tied up in a 13-year-long legal battle in which a federal judge ruled that the state of texas was violating the constitutional rights of foster care children by placing them in a systemically dangerous system.
the goal of cbc is for non-profit organizations to provide placement and care options to foster children on a localized, region-by-region basis.
region 3e
region 3e is the largest region the state has transitioned to private care.
“we’re responsible for 2,000 children on any given day whereas the state is responsible for over 10,000 children on any given day,” empower senior vice president linda garcia said. “i feel really confident that community-based care is the right thing to do because we are able to concentrate on paying attention to the children that are in this community.”
garcia said the state has been moving children to empower’s care in groups. last september, the first month of empower’s first phase, dr. garcia said more than 300 children in paid foster care were transitioned to the company’s care as well as 112 children who had been newly removed from their homes. each month since, groups of a few hundred have been transitioned.
the last group to be moved over, garcia said, will be children who are living with family and loved ones and children living in specialized living situations. she said that group will be moved over by march 1, when phase 2 goes into effect.
however, while the process of transitioning the children to the new system, one of the greatest concerns about the process from critics of cbc is about empower’s ability to recruit and retain the experienced child protective services workers who have historically worked for the state.
staffing concerns
last year, dfps told wfaa that 450 of the state’s more than 700 jobs in region 3e would be moved to empower, meaning that the people in those positions would have to either go to work for empower or find other jobs.
one caseworker, with nearly 20 years of experience with dfps, said going private is a major change for herself and her colleagues.
“i know there are some people who are forcing themselves to be positive about it because it’s one of those ‘i’m going to go into this with a positive mindset and hope for the best’, but i don’t know anyone who is genuinely excited,” she said.
the woman said she and her colleagues have been attending town hall-style informational meetings hosted by empower to prepare for the transition, but it has not improved confidence in the system for her or coworkers she’s spoken with.
“it’s hard to put faith in it when it comes from empower because they’ve broken every promise that they’ve made to us,” she said.
the caseworkers and other dfps employees are planning to start working for empower on march 1 told wfaa that they are taking great financial losses by moving to empower.
“we were told that we’d get pay and benefits that were comparable to what we’d get with the state and that did not happen,” the caseworker said. “it is because of the insurance. right now, the state pays for our insurance. empower, sometimes they’re matching workers’ pay. sometimes they’re offering less, and then we have to pay for our own insurance."
in her case, the base pay was matched, but she said she’s taking a financial hit of about $13,000 in insurance payments.
“for some workers, that is going to be a destroying factor,” she said.
a supervisor with more than 20 years of experience with the department told wfaa that she is going to work for empower because she feels like she doesn’t have a choice. she said that she’s accumulated multiple months work of paid sick time that she will lose and won’t be compensated for.
“the people that are going are doing it because they want to stay with their kids,” the caseworker said. “some are going for the money because they don’t have any better options.”
when empower entered its first phase of this transition last september, both garcia and leaders with the state admitted that the transition was going to be difficult for staff who have grown accustomed to state pay and benefits. they also admitted it wasn’t likely a private nonprofit would be able to compete with state compensation for every employee.
for garcia, it’s still a high priority.
“we have been busy trying to recruit the department of family and protective services caseworkers, to task them to come over to us,” garcia said. “that’s been weekly rounds of interviews and trying to get them to come over to us.”
wfaa submitted an open records request with dfps for data on what the people in the 450 jobs going to empower were choosing to do.
from february 2023, which is when the state awarded empower its contract, to january 8 of this year, 123 staff members opted to go to empower, 14 retired, 15 people transferred to other state agencies and 71 transferred within dfps.
the state did not provide the number of people who resigned, despite that being part of the requested for information. the state also did not respond to follow-up questions about the more than 200 positions that were not accounted for in the data provided.
empower said wednesday that it’s hired 339 new staff members for its second stage, with “around 250” started in march 1. of those 339 positions, empower said 147 of the people hired are caseworkers and 34 of them are support staff hired to assist caseworkers.
the company said it still has 75 open positions to fill.
“it’s extremely important for us to have all these individuals with this experience,” garcia said. “they know their cases. they know the children. they know the families. they know the community.”
the caseworker who spoke with wfaa said she is concerned about empower filling positions with people who are less experienced.
“we don’t know who’s training the new people coming to empower,” she said. “we don’t know what training they’re receiving. kids will run away when they don’t feel cared for. worse things can happen when they don’t feel cared for.”
garcia said training programs are in place for new staff. she said empower is hiring for “every supportive position you can think of”.
the caseworker who spoke with wfaa for this story said that she already has more cases than the state recommends per caseworker, and she has already received an additional case from a unit where both the supervisor and caseworker have left the department. she is concerned that caseworkers will see higher caseloads as people choose to either not go to empower, or to leave shortly after the transition.
dr. garcia said empower is working to prepare for that possibility.
“what we want to do is over hire just in case because sometimes life changes for these case workers,” garcia said. “they may decide they want to remain in the region or they make go somewhere else.”
placing children
in addition to compensation and hiring concerns, caseworkers who spoke with wfaa said they are already noticing children being placed in homes and facilities that are outside of region 3e.
“community-based care is supposed to be about keeping your kids in their community, and they’re not,” a caseworker said. “i’ve had kids go out of region...i’ve had two that have gone out of region just this year just since december.”
dr. garcia admitted that more than half of the providers that empower has brought into its network are outside of the nine counties of region 3e.
"i’ve got 160 in our network but, of that, probably about 60 of them are within the counties in our region,” garcia said.
caseworkers said that’s “another broken promise” from empower.
“they flat out said ‘we are not going to place kids out of region,’” a caseworker said.
one of the state’s performance measures for empower is the percentage of children who are placed within 50 miles of their home.
“they can be not in the region and within 50 miles,” garcia said.
what’s next? will it work?
empower will be required to report to dfps in a number of performance measures and will have to meet certain standards in order to maintain its contract with the state.
“i’ve seen improvement in the system every since community-based care was launched in 2013," garcia said. “i’ve had the luxury to be in the system from 2013 on, and community-based care has a way to target the problem and really work.”
garcia was in a leadership position with our community our kids (ocok) when the organization was awarded the state’s first contract to privatize foster care in region 3w which is made up of tarrant, parker, hood, johnson, somervell, palo pinto and erath counties. in april, ocok will add children in denton, wise and cookie counties to its care.
however, some of the caseworkers who spoke with wfaa said they are concerned about how the system will work in dallas county.
“it’s too big,” a caseworker said. “fannin, navarro, ellis...maybe they’ll succeed with them, but i don’t know anybody that has a hope for success in dallas.”
despite cbc being in place for more than a decade in the western part of north texas, she said many caseworkers are weary after watching it fail in in the san antonio area. in 2021, just about two years after the state awarded a contract to the children’s shelter to takeover foster care in bexar county, the organization cancelled its contract with the state after the state opened an investigation into a number of issues including violent episodes, sexual assaults and lack of supervision for kids.
“a lot of workers are expecting it kind of go the way bexar count went where the outlying counties are able to stay under a company, but the major metropolitan areas was not,” a caseworker said.
she said none of the colleagues she’s spoken with expect privatized care to be a success in region 3e -- but they want to be proven wrong.
“we want empower to succeed,” a caseworker said. “we know the system is broken. we know the department’s not the best parents...we want empower to be the solution to our problems.”
when asked how the public will know if cbc works for this region, garcia said the reports empower will provide to the state and the community will make it clear.
“the data will speak for itself,” garcia said.
###
remembering-moorehead-story-lakeland-erased-140527220.html: 
remembering moorehead: the story of lakeland’s erased black community
lakeland, fla. (wfla) -the moorehead community was a bustling neighborhood in lakeland for african-americans before desegregation, but nothing remains from the historic town.
“willie pearl,” audrey figgs said.
“that would have been here?” wfla’s deanne king asked.
“that would have been right here,” she replied.
audrey figgs, 75, remembers the moorehead community as though it was still there.
“i can hear my mother right now standing on the porch, ivory, ann, dawn, audrey and mary,” figgs recalled. “we had to run through the path to come up and eat everyday at 5 o’clock my mother would call.”
figgs grew up in moorehead, which is where the first black school and church were built in lakeland.
“in 1954 i went to first grade at moorehead elementary,” she said.
west of downtown lakeland, african americans moved to the 35-acre moorehead community in the 1800s to work on the railroad. roads like lime street, orange street and sycamore street were filled with black-owned businesses, churches and schools.
“i remember mt. sinai primitive baptist church simply because that’s where we played,” figgs said. “that was the playground.”
in the late 1960s after desegregation, moorehead residents were able to visit places they were once not allowed.
“i can remember my sister mary telling my momma, ‘momma, momma look at audrey, she’s over there drinking that white water,'” figgs recalled.
however, shortly after desegregation in 1971, the city of lakeland purchased moorehead using eminent domain to build an auditorium, which is now the rp funding center.
“the people were not satisfied,” figgs said. “they had been on that land since the early 1800s. you just uproot people and move them? i’m baffled today, i still don’t understand why mt. sinai primitive baptist church had to go, but yet wonn is still there. to me, that’s blatant discrimination.”
wonn is a radio station that has been operating since 1949. while that was never touched, many families were forced to relocate to areas like westlake in lakeland.
“i was kind of sad to see it go like that because we were one big family,” louise smith said. “now you drive through here and all you see is cement.”
louise smith, 81, also grew up in moorehead. she moved to the area at 16 after growing up in georgia.
“we would have to work the fields in georgia, but here i was a cook for my dad,” smith recalled. “moorehead was a family. i miss it.”
those stories and memories of moorehead now live on through people like figgs and smith.
“for people who might not know the story of moorehead, or know that moorehead existed, after learning about it, what do you hope their take away is?” wfla’s deanne king asked smith.
“that they will value more of where they are at and let them know what people had to give up,” she said.
the city of lakeland memorialized the moorehead community with a plaque at the now rp funding center. there are archives and photos in the lakeland library as well.
for the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to wfla.
###
Russians-lay-flowers-at-Navalny-s-grave-hail-him-as-symbol-of-hope-46079845: 
navalny's mother lyudmila was among the mourners, visiting her son's grave for the second day, accompanied by the mother of alexei's widow yulia. both women, dressed in black, stood quietly at the grave, before leaving.
navalny, who was president vladimir putin's fiercest critic inside russia, died at the age of 47 in an arctic penal colony on feb. 16. supporters said he had been murdered. the kremlin has denied any state involvement in his death.
thousands of people attended a farewell ceremony for navalny on friday, with some chanting his name and saying they would not forgive the russian authorities for his death.
by saturday, the grave in a moscow cemetery not for from where he once lived was covered with flowers left by thousands of mourners.
"he was the one who had opened my eyes to the existing political situation in russia," one mourner, who did not give her name, said of navalny, who rose to prominence with blogs exposing what he said was vast corruption in the russian elite.
"i followed all of his investigations closely. i showed them to my friends who were not very interested (in politics). i tried to show them to my parents, but that was more difficult. i love truth, i love honesty, and i'm very happy when truth wins."
the kremlin dismissed navalny's accusations of corruption and his accusations that putin had vast personal wealth. navalny's movement is outlawed and most of his senior allies have fled russia and now live in europe.
police look on
another mourner visited the grave "to honour the memory of the man who has become a symbol of perseverance for me. and after what's happened, there's a feeling of a very deep sorrow."
"but as horrible as it may sound, it is still pleasant to see how many people came here, and this makes me feel some kind of communion," the mourner said.
"he was a symbol. he was a huge symbol. despite everything, you can think of him whatever you want, but he has really become a symbol of something free and bright, of some kind of hope."
police looked on but did not interfere as mourners lay flowers at navalny's grave on saturday.
a rights group, ovd-info, reported that 91 people had been detained on friday in 12 towns and cities, including moscow. it did not immediately report any new detentions on saturday.
navalny had been jailed on a host of charges including fraud, contempt of court and extremism. he denied all those charges, saying they had been trumped up by the authorities to silence his criticism of putin.
(reporting by reuters, writing by maxim rodionov, editing by timothy heritage)
###
45412-codi-bigsby-trial-begins-the-history-of-no-body-murder-trials-in-virginia: 
codi bigsby trial begins: the history of "no body" murder trials in virginia
- details
- written by laura philion
- category: local news
- published: 01 march 2024
cory bigsby goes on trial monday, charged with the murder of his 4-year-old son codi — even though no body has been found. whro spoke with former prosecutor and legal scholar laura killinger of william & mary law school about the history of “no body” murder cases in virginia.
the following interview has been edited for length and clarity.
whro: let's start with the basics. just how difficult is it to try a murder case with no body?
laura killinger: well, in any murder case, the prosecutor has to prove that a particular person died at the hands of another person and that the defendant is the one who did that. so in cases where there's no body, the authorities have to prove that the alleged victim was actually killed and isn't just missing. so it is significantly more difficult than in a regular murder case where you have a body that can be examined by a coroner and that can be identified by loved ones later on as a person who is deceased, and where you can examine the body and determine the method of death.
whro: there are a few cases in virginia that set a precedent for this one, including the 1980 case of the radford university student gina hall. it took about 40 years for her remains to be found, but steven epperly was convicted for her murder long before that. tell us more about how that case played out legally.
lk: so that case was sort of a cutting edge case at the time, because it was the first 'no body' case in virginia.
with that case, there was pretty much overwhelming circumstantial evidence. and it was prosecutors piecing together that circumstantial evidence of people who had seen epperly with gina renee hall, and then when they found bloodstains in the cabin, when they found fibers and things like that in the car of the trunk that was identified to connect to epperly. so there's a lot of circumstantial evidence in that particular case that allowed prosecutors to prove beyond a reasonable doubt.
there was no statement or confession by epperly, and in fact, epperly maintained his innocence. and despite that, he was convicted and sentenced to life.
whro: what other kind of evidence can the prosecution present in that case or now in the bigsby case in 2024? are there differences?
lk: oh, definitely. certainly the developments in dna evidence have been revolutionary for the criminal justice system, both in identifying and convicting people who did do it, and in exonerating people who did not and who were wrongfully convicted of a crime. so that, of course, is a major factor and difference in these cases since that time.
in addition, there's been a lot more developments in other areas of forensic science. so for instance, identification of fibers, identification of hair samples and all kinds of things like that are much better. so there is quite a bit of different technology.
now, you had mentioned the different types of evidence. circumstantial evidence is something that a lot of times your listeners may have heard about in passing. and there is this mistaken belief out there that circumstantial evidence is not good, and maybe it's not even admissible, and that's just simply not true. oftentimes, circumstantial evidence can be extremely helpful in these cases and is usually always admissible.
whro: cory bigsby made written confessions in jail and then recanted them. a judge ruled in november those were admissible. does that change anything about the way this trial would be handled?
lk: some people think, "oh gosh, there's a confession or there's a statement, isn't that, you know, the end of the story?" but a good defense attorney can poke holes through a confession. and so as a prosecutor, they will need to find as much cooperating evidence that shows independently that whatever the defendant said the way they did it really is borne out by corroborating evidence, that they find either at the scene or afterward.
the world changes fast.
keep up with daily local news from whro. get local news every weekday in your inbox.
sign-up here.
###
marcus-osborne-domestic-abuser-who-murdered-ex-partner-and-new-boyfriend-days-after-being-released-on-bail-given-whole-life-order-13084237: 
marcus osborne: domestic abuser who murdered ex-partner and new boyfriend days after being released on bail given whole life order
the killer had a history of domestic abuse and attacked his ex-partner katie higton after she told police he had threatened to "slit her throat".
friday 1 march 2024 14:30, uk
a man who stabbed to death his ex-partner and a man she was dating in a "ferocious and merciless" attack has been sentenced to a whole life order.
marcus osborne murdered katie higton, 27, and steven harnett, 25, in may last year.
he forced his way into the home he used to share with ms higton in huddersfield and attacked her as she returned from a date at a cinema.
prosecutors said she put up a "courageous struggle" but suffered 99 knife wounds, including more than 20 to the face.
osborne, 35, then used her phone to lure mr harnett to the house, stabbing him 24 times and leaving him with mutilated genitals.
he also raped another woman who was at the house and held her at knifepoint overnight.
leeds crown court heard four children were in the property at the time, and that after the killings he said: "romeo and juliet can die together now."
he also invited neighbours to come to see the bodies, said sky correspondent frazer maude.
as he was led away on friday, a family member shouted: "i hope you rot in hell", while a statement by ms higton's mother called osborne a "monster of the worst kind".
he now joins a list of britain's worst killers, such as rose west and milly dowler's killer levi bellfield, who will never be released.
the murders happened soon after ms higton ended her five-year relationship with osborne following a domestic violence incident in late april.
'motivated by sex'
ms higton visited the police station on 10 may and told officers he regularly attacked her and was controlling and coercive.
she told police that osborne had threatened to "slit her throat if she said what he had done" and that "if she ever got a boyfriend he would kill them both".
he was arrested two days later on suspicion of domestic violence but released on bail and told not to return to the house or contact ms higton.
he then spied on her before carrying out the killings on 15 may.
read more from sky news:
the whole-life prisoners currently behind bars
osborne, who also has convictions for violent offences against two previous partners in 2011 and 2012, pleaded guilty to the murders as well as the rape.
the court heard he had found out about ms higton's developing relationship with mr harnett by hacking into her snapchat account.
judge mrs justice lambert said there were no mitigating factors.
"this is a case of such exceptional seriousness that even a very long minimum term would not be a just punishment. what you did that night was horrific," she told osborne.
she said the killings were driven by "pathological jealousy".
"everything you did was motivated by sex and your need to sexually humiliate and degrade," the judge added.
be the first to get breaking news
install the sky news app for free
osborne also received a 10-year concurrent sentence for the rape and false imprisonment of the other woman in the house.
speaking after the sentencing, mr harnett's family said police are failing to protect the most vulnerable, particularly when it comes to acting on domestic abuse reports.
his brother, jordan harnett, said: "how does a man with a history of domestic violence walk free from a police station on bail?
"police are unable to protect people who need it the most. what are our government doing?"
"i want police to take threats to kill more seriously. police need to do more. i'd like to see the police listen to women like katie."
west yorkshire police said the murders were "truly dreadful".
however, it said it was limited in what it could say as an investigation into its handling of the case - in conjunction with police watchdog the independent office for police conduct (iopc) - is ongoing.
###
ball-state-names-new-entrepreneurship-center-director: 
ball state names new entrepreneurship center director
the ball state university miller college of business on friday announced rob mathews as the new executive director of the university’s entrepreneurship center.
mathews is also the executive director of the entrepreneurial leadership institute as well as an assistant teaching professor of management and leadership. he will continue as the director of both centers.
“we are delighted to have rob join us in these overlapping roles within the miller college of business,” dean cathy dubois said in a news release. “his broad experience in these roles and as a facilitator, an entrepreneur, and an author provides him with a well-grounded basis upon which to lead.”
mathews previously was the entrepreneurship center’s assistant director. he earned his bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degrees from ball state, and called being able to lead the program in which he was a student an “incredible honor.”
“my goal is to both honor the robust heritage built by my mentor, dr. don kuratko, while also putting my own stamp on the program through experiential programming centered on problem-solving, innovation, and entrepreneurial leadership,” mathews said. “i’m extremely excited for this opportunity and challenge to impact the next generation of entrepreneurs, innovators, and leaders.”
the center, which is celebrating its 40th anniversary this year, provides services for students stretching outside the lecture hall, including mentoring, internships and lecture series.
###
us-ambassador-speaks-about-importance-of-southern-gas-corridor-429601: 
"in his opening remarks for the united states at the southern gas corridor advisory council 10th ministerial meeting, ambassador libby underscored the importance of the southern gas corridor in providing energy security to our european partners and allies," it has been noted on x account of us embassy to azerbaijan, apa reports.
us ambassador speaks about importance of southern gas corridor
foreign
nato announces program of secretary general stoltenberg's visit to the south caucasus
itinerary of georgian pm's visit to azerbaijan announced
ex-president of croatia: 2024 will be a decisive year for war in ukraine
chinese dean: we must be against artificial intelligence as humanity
news feed
egypt's president reaffirms endeavors to reach ceasefire in gaza
world bank approves 520-mln-usd loans to tunisia
un general assembly adopts resolution on measures against islamaphobia
european commission considers restrictions of russian food imports
nato announces program of secretary general stoltenberg's visit to the south caucasus
fenerbahce to face olympiacos in uefa conference league quarterfinals
türkiye's budget deficit at $10b in january-february
itinerary of georgian pm's visit to azerbaijan announced
european union is working on the 14th package of sanctions against russia — eu official
putin casts his vote online in russian presidential election-photo
g7 warns iran not to give russia ballistic missiles for ukraine war
windfall profits from frozen russian assets to be used to buy ukraine weapons - scholz promises
azerbaijani pm: "all raised issues are not resolved immediately, but in stages and will be"
nato secretary general to also visit armenia
putin accuses ukraine of trying to disrupt russia's presidential election with 'criminal' acts
magnitude 4.2 earthquake hits caspian sea
ex-president of croatia: 2024 will be a decisive year for war in ukraine
16 killed and 55 injured in double russian missile strike on ukraine's odesa-updated
chinese dean: we must be against artificial intelligence as humanity
former israeli fm: neither hezbollah represents interests of lebanon, nor hamas interests of palestinians
un committee assessed the approval of the inclusive education program in azerbaijan as positive event
wolfgang ischinger: un institutions can't perform their function
mongolia's former president: rejection of nuclear weapons can bring hope for the future
georgia, türkiye express solidarity with azerbaijan in rehabilitation efforts of conflict-affected territories
establishment of relations between azerbaijan and armenia will significantly contribute to regional stability - baku declaration
azerbaijan’s press council awards editor-in-chief of apa media group nurshan guliyev
text of the baku declaration has been published
azerbaijani president receives administrator of un development programme -updated
türkiye discloses key issues causing disagreement with nato
georgian fm: pm's visit to azerbaijan will strengthen strategic partnership
baku-hosted forum features fifth panel discussions on climate justice
türkiye is ready to provide necessary support to palestine in direction of peace - foreign minister
turkish top diplomat: call for discussions does not mean ukraine’s capitulation
ots is fully established international organization - turkish foreign minister
türkiye will be pleased to cooperate with azerbaijan within framework of cop29 - foreign minister
azerbaijani prime minister: we are developing our liberated territories
azerbaijan became shining star of south caucasus - turkish fm
azerbaijan's milli majlis addresses congratulatory letter to president ilham aliyev and mehriban aliyeva
nato secretary general stoltenberg to visit azerbaijan this weekend
azerbaijan-türkiye relations entered new level with signing of shusha declaration - foreign minister
azerbaijan, armenia very close to signing peace agreement - turkish fm
turkish fm: no one will win war in ukraine
azerbaijan is determined to advance peace process with armenia - foreign minister
azerbaijani fm discusses regional situation with turkish counterpart
world trade organization director-general congratulates azerbaijani president
azerbaijani prime minister: our economic growth forecast for 2024 is 2.6%
assistant to azerbaijani president met with turkish fm
next pandemic is knocking on the door, ex-diplomat says
azerbaijani fm: with resolution of the conflict, fertile conditions have been created for strengthening regional cooperation
azerbaijani, georgian top diplomats discussed the regional situation
###
article67904464.ece: 
justice bechu kurian thomas and justice gopinath p., who constitute a division bench of the kerala high court, will visit the brahmapuram waste dumping yard on march 6 at 3.30 p.m. to see the working of the facilities at the yard.
when a suo motu case registered in the wake of the fire at the brahmapuram yard came up before the bench, the judges said they would like to personally visit the area and see for themselves the functioning of the facilities there, including the fire hydrants.
the court said there should not be any delay in implementing a new plant to treat biodegradable waste using black soldier flies (bsfs). the corporation had last month informed the court that the black soldier fly project had been awarded to two different agencies and that the first plant would be operational by the second week of february.
the project, supposed to have been commissioned by december 2023, got delayed on account of certain technical issues, including power connection from the kseb. when the corporation submitted that a request for power connection was made before the kseb, the court asked the kseb to speed up the process for providing electricity connection.
the corporation also submitted that bhumi green energy had started bio-mining the areas and large quantities of legacy waste had already been processed. dedicated officials had been deputed to monitor the work of bio-mining.
in fact, the national environmental energy research institute (neeri) would conduct a third-party audit in terms of the agreement executed between the corporation and bhumi green energy.
###
kolkata-crime-child-left-in-shock-after-his-mother-kills-her-live-in-partner-surrenders-to-police: 
a frightful incident that has sent shockwaves across the city of kolkata in west bengal. a child was left in a state of shock after he was sent to his grandparents on tuesday night (february 27th) after his mother surrendered to police moments after she stabbed her live-in partner to death. the child was the accused's son from the previous marriage who was living along with the couple in the same house in kolkata. it still not certain if the child saw the murder taking place however, separation from biological father and frequent fights of his mother with her partner had already pushed the child into a difficult mental state.
the accused woman has been identified as a 32 year old woman named sanghati paul and the victim who was her live-in partner has been identified as sarthak das. reports said that the couple got acquainted with each other through a social media platform and both have been staing in a rented apartment in madhubani road in kolkata. the woman moved in with her partner along with her son from previous marriage. reports said that sarthak was a photographer by profession and he once came home drunk that lead to a verbal fight which took an ugly turn resulting into a gruesome murder. police said that the accused soon called the police and confessed to the crime.
this is not the first incident in which live-in relationships have taken a toxic form to the extent to one killing the other. in a shocking and heart wrenching incident that had surfaced from surat city of gujarat earlier in february, a 35 year old woman lost her life after she was set ablaze by her live-in partner. the exact date when the incident took place is not known yet, however, on tuesday 20 february, the accused was arrested. the investigation into the incident is still underway however police suspect infidelity as the motive behind the crime.
###
how-immigration-turned-into-a-political-headache-for-biden-20240229-p5f8rz: 
how immigration turned into a political nightmare for biden
more than 9 million illegal immigrants have crossed the border since biden took office. with polls showing more voters trust trump on immigration, the president is under the hammer.
the informal start to the 2024 presidential race started deep inside texas this week with the two most likely presidential contenders facing off over america’s growing immigration crisis.
split screens on television channels showed live coverage of president joe biden’s trip into brownsville, overlooking the gulf of mexico, as former president donald trump inspected the border at eagle pass, in maverick county.
it was only biden’s second trip to the border since his presidency began in 2021, at which time he tore up a long list of the trump administration’s hardline immigration policies.
but now he’s facing a crisis that has spread across the country, from swing states such as arizona to democrat strongholds such as new york.
more than 9 million illegal immigrants have crossed the border since biden took office, heaping pressure on housing, jobs, hospitals and schools and triggering a spate of 33,000 migrant crimes in 2023 according to immigration and customs enforcement.
“it’s time to act. it’s long past time,” biden said, before pointing the finger at trump and his republican colleagues for refusing to support legislation on the issue.
trump, who visited the border with texas governor greg abbott, responded by saying the president had done nothing for three years and now refused to mention university of georgia student laken riley who was allegedly murdered by a man who entered the us illegally in 2022.
“joe biden will never say laken riley’s name, but we will say it and we will remember her. i spoke to her parents last night. we are not going to forget her,” trump said.
the former president, who is leading biden by two points in national polls, claimed that the number of illegal immigrants that could cross the us border might hit 18 million under biden.
what the polls say
a gallup poll this week showed that immigration is now the most important problem in the us by a plurality of 28 per cent, while at the same time, biden’s trustworthiness on the issue has plummeted.
in 2020, trump was more trusted on immigration by 16 percentage points, according to an nbc news polling. that margin more than doubled to 35 percentage points by january.
more importantly for this year’s election, polling from morning consult and bloomberg found that among swing state voters, such as those in the border state of arizona, trump is more trusted to handle the issue of immigration over biden by 22 points.
biden knows the politics of this means he has to steer another course on immigration policies, especially following democrat tom suozzi’s congressional win this month after his campaign focused on the need to tighten immigration laws. new york alone is spending $us12 billion on the 100,000 illegal immigrants it has received.
a fund-raising arm – the house majority pac – spent around $us7 million to support suozzi’s bid, while saying the democrats had to go on the offence when it comes to “immigration”.
a democrat congressman in new york’s adjoining wealthy state of connecticut, chris murphy, told his democratic colleagues, “we risk losing the 2024 election if we do not seize this opportunity to go on the offence on the issue of the border”.
more than 70 per cent of surveyed democrats rate the government’s handling of the influx of migrants at the us-mexico border as “somewhat bad” or “very bad”, according to the pew research centre.
part of the issue for biden is his demolition of trump’s tough immigration policies. biden’s cabinet secretary alejandro mayorkas, whom the us house of representatives voted to impeach this month, is now haunted by his quote in 2021 that, “we have rescinded so many trump immigration policies, it would take so much time to list them”.
apart from biden’s more conciliatory stance to illegal immigrants seeking to live in america, he stopped the construction of the border wall system and terminated the migrant protection protocols that sent tens of thousands of alleged asylum seekers to wait in mexico – known as the so-called remain in mexico policy.
the director of policy studies at the centre for immigration studies, jessica vaughan, notes biden cancelled a raft of major trump-era policies.
“he cancelled agreements with transit nations to offer safe haven to migrants and enforce their borders; he relaxed application of title 42 pandemic controls so that minors and families could enter; he began awarding immigration parole to tens of thousands of illegal crossers, in defiance of the intent of congress; he extended temporary protected status (tps) to citizens of more nations and more recent arrivals; he established strict limitations on interior enforcement to suppress deportations of all but the most egregious criminals; and launched plans for a new asylum system designed to expedite the legalisation of illegal border crossers,” she says.
executive action
reversing these policies does not require congressional legislative approval despite much being made about debate in congress on new legislation. biden knows this and is quietly changing his tune.
he told us governors this week that he was working with white house attorneys on executive actions to limit crossings at the southern border. foremost among the proposals under consideration is a plan to prohibit asylum claims after a certain number of border crossings is reached, allowing the administration to quickly remove individuals without an asylum hearing.
but analysts at independent political advisory group beacon research say that is not going to be enough to ease the crisis.
“any executive action is unlikely to dramatically reduce asylum claims before the election. while taking executive action on immigration could benefit biden, we believe it is unlikely to significantly shift voters’ opinions of his handling of the issue.”
biden is trying to shift the blame onto failed legislation. in may last year, the republican-controlled house passed the secure the border act, which reinstated many trump-era policies. democrats voted against it and a watered-down bipartisan bill was only recently reintroduced in the senate, which a handful of democrats voted against and a handful of republicans voted in favour.
“i didn’t get everything i wanted in that compromise bipartisan bill but neither did anybody else. compromise as part of the process. that’s how democracy works,” biden said while addressing homeland security employees in brownsville.
“those senators who oppose it need to set aside politics and pass it on merits not on whether it’s going to benefit one party or benefit the other party,” biden added.
political advertisers from both parties have already spent $us52 million on campaign ads about immigration so far this year.
it is by far the top issue in terms of political advertising spend, almost $20 million ahead of any other issue according to adimpact data, meaning immigration is looking more like the adjudicator of who takes the white house on november 5.
subscribe to gift this article
gift 5 articles to anyone you choose each month when you subscribe.subscribe now
already a subscriber?
introducing your newsfeed
follow the topics, people and companies that matter to you.find out more
read more
latest in north america
fetching latest articles
###
73586: 
presidential aide and chairman of the presidential council for cossack affairs dmitry mironov noted in his speech that the event was attended by cossacks from various regions of the country who are united by a strong patriotic attitude and their faith in their own strength and in the ability to win. mironov also stressed that the cossacks are true to president vladimir putin’s policies for a more prosperous russia.
head of the federal agency for ethnic affairs igor barinov, first deputy minister of the interior alexander gorovoi, head of the republic of north ossetia-alania sergei menyailo, and members of the presidential council for cossack affairs were honorary guests at the event.
the assembly brought together over 1,200 people, including atamans and cossacks from military cossack societies and national cossack associations. universities were represented by students from the association of cossack universities, and students at the cossack cadet corps and secondary education institutions.
following the big assembly, a resolution was adopted in which the participants expressed support for the president’s policies, and they decided to establish the council of atamans of russia as a coordinating body to unite russian cossacks, and also identified priority areas of activity to unite russian cossacks.
###
russia-jails-jehovah: 
russia jails jehovah’s witness for 8 years after ‘mole’ secretly films worship meeting
(reuters) – a court in southwestern russia has sentenced a jehovah’s witness to eight years in prison after finding him guilty of organising “extremist activities”, according to a spokesman for the group.
russia’s supreme court designated the christian denomination as “extremist” in 2017, liquidating and banning its nearly 400 chapters across the country.
russia counted roughly 175,000 active believers at the time of the ban, according to the group’s russian website. since then, raids, interrogations and jailings of adherents have occurred with some regularity.
the case against aleksandr chagan, 52, was built around a “mole” who secretly filmed worship meetings held by videoconference, said the spokesman, jarrod lopes.
sentenced by a court in tolyatti on thursday, chagan is the sixth witness to receive eight years, the longest term imposed since the ban, lopes said.
religious life in russia is dominated by the russian orthodox church, which is championed by and loyal to president vladimir putin. some orthodox scholars view jehovah’s witnesses, known for door-to-door preaching and refusing military service, as a “totalitarian sect”.
at least 794 witnesses have been criminally charged in russia for their faith, and 127 are currently serving prison sentences, lopes said.
last month, four witnesses in the same russian region were handed seven-year jail terms in samara, the same region as chagan, while a female believer was sentenced in tolyatti to two years’ forced labour.
the european court of human rights, the court of the council of europe, ruled in june 2022 that the ban was illegal, three months after the council expelled russia over its full-scale invasion of ukraine.
###
x-twitter-has-quietly-restored-a-ban-on-misgendering-and-deadnaming-trans-people: 
x/twitter has ‘quietly restored’ a ban on misgendering and deadnaming trans people
ten months ago, in april 2023, elon musk’s x platform – formerly twitter – rolled back a vital policy protecting transgender users from misgendering and deadnaming in a move that was widely condemned.
the move meant that x immediately fell behind other social media companies including tiktok and pinterest, which have both explicitly banned misgendering, deadnaming, misogyny and the promotion of ‘conversion therapy’ practices.
this unpopular decision seemed to come about decision came after elon musk suggested that his own tweets might violate the 2018 policy, so the rule was quietly dropped. now, it seems that x just as quietly reinstated the original policy – back in january 2024.
ars technica reports that, in a section labeled “use of prior names and pronouns,” x’s updated policy confirms that x will “reduce the visibility of posts that purposefully use different pronouns to address someone other than what that person uses for themselves, or that use a previous name that someone no longer goes by as part of their transition.”
lgbtq+ journalist ari drennen picked up the report, tweeting it to her followers and writing, “don’t look now but x (formerly twitter) quietly restored their ban on misgendering and deadnaming trans people – as long as it’s reported by the target.”
the policy reinstatement comes in the wake of multiple high-profile lgbtq+ organisations and individuals quitting x, citing a rise in anti-lgbtq+ and anti-trans “hate and vitriol” on the platform.
you may like to watch
x users responded to news of the change, with one person tweeting, “had to go look for myself. it says january 2024. so very quietly putting it back. i just got a violation for using the word cis. unbelievable.”
another person added, “someone either read enough to widen their perspective or the company was going to get hit with litigation. we will never know unfortunately.”
whether this change will have any impact on the overall safety of lgbtq+ people using the platform remains to be seen – it’s also not clear whether any lgbtq+ organisations who have quit the platform will return.
non-profit lgbtq+ suicide prevention organisation the trevor project announced its official departure from x in november 2023, saying, “lgbtq+ young people are regularly victimised at the expense of their mental health and x’s removal of certain moderation functions makes it more difficult for us to create a welcoming space for them on this platform.”
transgender charity mermaids made a similar announcement in october 2023 – as did lgbtq youth scotland and the san francisco lgbt centre in may 2023.
mypinknews members are invited to comment on articles to discuss the content we publish, or debate issues more generally. please familiarise yourself with our community guidelines to ensure that our community remains a safe and inclusive space for all.
report this comment
please let us know why you would like to report this comment:
the ability to comment will be removed from anyone who does not follow our terms & conditions
###
article-boeing-reportedly-in-talks-to-buy-737-fuselage-maker-spirit: 
boeing ba-n is in talks to buy its former subsidiary spirit aerosystems spr-n and the planemaker is also delaying plans to ramp up 737 jetliner production as it tries to get control of a sprawling crisis sparked by a mid-air panel blowout.
for weeks, boeing has been reeling from the fallout of the 737 max incident when a door plug blew off at 16,000 feet (4,877 meters) above the ground on jan. 5. u.s. aviation regulators have already curbed production and air carriers have been in discussion for more aircraft deliveries with its bigger rival, airbus.
“we believe that the reintegration of boeing and spirit aerosystems’ manufacturing operations would further strengthen aviation safety, improve quality and serve the interests of our customers, employees, and shareholders,” boeing said in a statement on friday. spirit aerosystems confirmed the discussions.
in a related development on friday, reuters was the first to report the company told suppliers it was delaying expected increases in plane production as it tries to regain the confidence of the industry and satisfy regulators’ desires for better oversight of its safety and quality control systems.
reuters reported last month that years of decentralization of boeing’s planemaking capacity – along with an exodus of experienced workers and aggressive cost-cutting – has affected quality. two crashes a few years ago dented the confidence of both the public and regulators in boeing’s safety record.
the first crash, of a lion air flight in indonesia, occurred in october 2018 and killed all 189 people aboard. the second crash of an ethiopian airlines flight in march 2019 killed 157 people.
boeing spun off spirit in 2005 and in recent years has struggled with cost pressures and problems that have slowed aircraft deliveries and thinned its balance sheet. bringing spirit back into the fold could address some of those quality issues as it would give boeing more control over manufacturing.
the preliminary talks were reported earlier on friday by the wall street journal, which also said that spirit has hired bankers.
such a move could also help boeing lower spirit’s production costs, a senior industry source told reuters. boeing had previously considered repurchasing spirit aerosystems, but the optics of buying back at a higher price discouraged such a move, the source said.
however, spirit’s shares have fallen 70% over the last five years, and its $3.3 billion market value is far short of boeing’s $124 billion. “boeing probably realizes that divesting its wichita operations that make up the core of spirit aerosystems was a strategic mistake,” scott mikus, equity research associate at melius research said. shares of spirit aerosystems closed up 15% on friday in regular trading and were up 2.3% after hours. boeing closed down 1.8% and were flat post market.
the u.s. federal aviation administration in late january barred boeing from increasing production of the 737 max as it presses for changes.
on feb. 12, faa head mike whitaker visited boeing’s renton, washington, factory, where the 737 max line is produced, and expressed concerns about some things he saw on the tour to ceo dave calhoun earlier this week, two people briefed on the matter told reuters.
according to boeing’s latest 737 supplier master schedule seen by reuters, the company had to delay plans to increase production from 38 to 42 aircraft per month to june, from the initial target date of february. boeing has also pushed back subsequent production increases throughout 2024 and 2025.
spirit, one of the industry’s major manufacturers of large aircraft structures, has struggled with cash flow problems over the past few quarters and quality issues surrounding the fuselages it makes for boeing’s 737 narrowbody jets.
the company is also exploring selling operations in ireland that makes wings for the airbus a220 jet, as it would be unusual for boeing to supply its competitor.
“for boeing, this does give them the opportunity to bring spirit in-house and fix its problems, but boeing of course has its own issues and has hardly covered itself with glory when it comes to execution of late,” said vertical research partners analyst robert stallard.
investigators are still trying to definitively sort out responsibility for the jan. 5 incident. spirit made the panel, but boeing removed it to fix rivet damage and then put it back, according to a preliminary report by u.s. investigators who found pictures showing the panel at boeing apparently missing key bolts.
###
nepal-ranks-150th-in-ai-readiness-index: 
published on: march 2, 2024 04:25 pm npt by: republica | @republicanepal
kathmandu, march 2: nepal has been ranked 150th out of 193 countries in the government ai readiness index, 2023.
the report published by the oxford insights shows the us in first position with 84.80 total score, while singapore the second in the index with 81.97 total score.
nepal has got the total score- 30.77.
in the index, the total score is calculated from three bases- government pillar, technology sector pillar, and data and infrastructure pillar.
with total score, 30.77, nepal has achieved 31.04 in government pillar, 24.21 in technology sector pillar, and 37.06 in data and infrastructure pillar.
in the previous year, 2022, nepal had secured 139th position out of 181 countries in the government ai readiness index. the total score was 30.75 where nepal got 30.88 mark under government pillar, 23.50 mark under technology sector pillar, and 37.88 mark under the data and infrastructure pillar.
afghanistan has been ranked at the bottom (181st rank) with a 13.46 total score in 2022, while the democratic republic of korea is at the bottom (193rd) with a total score 9.20 in 2023.
india is ranked 40th while china 16th in 2023, while they were ranked 32nd and 17th respectively in 2022.
the three pillars were analyzed by setting different dimensions. under the government pillar, there were four dimensions- vision, governance and ethic, digital capacity, and adaptability. similarly, the technology sector pillar comprised three dimensions- maturity, innovation capacity, and human capital. the third pillar, data and infrastructure, has also included three dimensions, infrastructure, data availability and data representativeness.
a total of 39 indicators were set for 10 dimensions under three pillars.
the report collected data from various sources, including oecd ai policy observatory, un idir ai policy portal, global cybersecurity index, worldwide governance indicators, un e-government survey, network readiness index, international telecommunications union, and the world bank.
the index has mentioned the developments relating to ai in all sorts of countries ranging from ldcs to emerging economies to the developed ones.
persisting global digital divide
in the finding, the report stated, "half of the ai strategies that were published or announced come from low and lower middle-income countries. the scores in the data and infrastructure pillar show a substantial difference between high- and low-income economies, illustrating an existing global digital divide."
at a time when most of the countries are swayed by the modern buzz, ai, and striving to both promote and regulate ai irrespective of their capacities, the index is expected to cater relevant knowledge to the government, private sectors and researchers.
the oxford insights is a uk-based organization working around the intersection of technology and government and generating global scale study reports.
(rss)
###
agalega-in-the-shifting-geopolitical-landscape: 
agalega in the shifting geopolitical landscape
editorial
for several years, the spectre of a clandestine mauritius-india agreement to establish an indian military base on agalega has loomed over parliamentary debates and local media headlines. the mere mention of a military base on this idyllic island in the indian ocean has stirred controversy and raised concerns about sovereignty. yet, amidst the speculation and allegations, the mauritius government has consistently maintained a stance of denial, refuting the existence of any such agreement with the indian authorities.
as early as may 2017, an official communique following prime minister pravind jugnauth’s state visit to india outlined plans for agalega’s economic development. in this statement, it was revealed that basic infrastructure, including a runway and jetty, would be constructed by the government of india at its own expense. an agreement to this effect was signed during the prime minister’s state visit, signalling india’s commitment to supporting mauritius in enhancing the economic potential of agalega. however, the authorities and the pmo steadfastly refused at making the mou public or laying it in the national assembly, claiming a confidentiality clause, although india was reported not to have any qualms on its public release.
despite the pm’s assurances therefore and the unexplained need for confidentiality, questions persisted, prompting further inquiries from both the public and political figures. notably, hon xavier duval raised concerns in may 2021, seeking clarity on the nature of the infrastructure projects and their implications for agalega’s future. in response, the prime minister reiterated the collaborative nature of the projects, emphasizing that they aimed to bolster economic development rather than establish a military base. mention was made of mauritius partnering india in the latter’s sagar project for regional development and security challenges in the north indian ocean. it was also categorically stated that there would be no stockpile of weapons on agalega, distinguishing it from conventional military bases established by other nations in the region.
the most recent affirmation of mauritius’ sovereignty over agalega came from prime minister jugnauth during the inauguration of the newly constructed facilities on february 29. these projects, including a jetty and a three-kilometre-long runway, were fully financed and built by the indian authorities. the prime minister reassured the public that mauritius would retain control over these facilities, dispelling concerns about jeopardizing the island’s sovereignty.
while official statements seek to allay fears, there has been and remains a palpable need for greater openness from mauritian and indian authorities regarding the details of the bilateral agreement. the lack of transparency has fuelled speculation, some unhealthy or unproductive, in some quarters. clarity on the terms and conditions governing india’s generous contribution to the development of agalega’s infrastructure is essential.
on the other hand, amidst this controversy, it is crucial to analyze the shifting geopolitical dynamics in the indian ocean region. the emergence of new players with diverse strategic interests, coupled with security challenges such as piracy and geopolitical tensions, underscores the importance of safeguarding mauritius’ security and economic interests. as a small island state, mauritius must navigate these complexities with foresight and strategic acumen. unfortunately, it has not developed a mature approach where political divides can be bridged for matters of national interest or where leaders of opposition parties can be taken in the confidence of what’s brewing.
in conclusion, while the agalega controversy continues to spark debate and speculation, it is imperative to separate fact from fiction and embrace geopolitical realities. transparent communication from the authorities, coupled with a nuanced understanding of regional geopolitics, is essential for safeguarding mauritius’ sovereignty and security in an ever-evolving geopolitical landscape. as mauritius charts its course in the indian ocean, strategic alignment with regional dynamics that serve the nation’s interests remains paramount. by strategizing intelligently and embracing transparency, mauritius can advance its long-term political and economic interests amidst the complexities of the indian ocean region.
mauritius times epaper friday 1 march 2024
an appeal
dear reader
65 years ago mauritius times was founded with a resolve to fight for justice and fairness and the advancement of the public good. it has never deviated from this principle no matter how daunting the challenges and how costly the price it has had to pay at different times of our history.
with print journalism struggling to keep afloat due to falling advertising revenues and the wide availability of free sources of information, it is crucially important for the mauritius times to survive and prosper. we can only continue doing it with the support of our readers.
the best way you can support our efforts is to take a subscription or by making a recurring donation through a standing order to our non-profit foundation.
thank you.
###
supreme-court-police-ip-warrant-canada: 
the supreme court of canada ruled friday that police must obtain a warrant before requesting a canadians’ internet protocol address in a significant victory for privacy advocates.
in a 5-4 ruling, the supreme court asserted that canadians have charter-protected privacy rights when it comes to cops requesting information about their online activities.
“personal privacy is vital to individual dignity, autonomy, and personal growth. its protection is a basic prerequisite to the flourishing of a free and healthy democracy,” the majority ruling read.
“the internet requires that users reveal subscriber information to their isp to participate in this new public square, and canadians are not required to become digital recluses in order to maintain some semblance of privacy in their lives.”
at issue was a 2017 investigation by the calgary police into fraudulent online purchases from a liquor store.
police went to the liquor store’s payment processing company, moneris, and requested internet protocol (ip) addresses related to the purchases. they did not get a warrant.
moneris handed over two ip addresses used for the transactions, which the police used to obtain a court order requiring an internet service provider to turn over the names and addresses associated with the ip addresses.
that led to a search of andrei bykovets’ residence, and to bykovet’s arrest on charges of possessing other peoples’ credit cards and identification documents. bykovet challenged the cops’ right to obtain his ip address from moneris, arguing it violated his charter rights against unreasonable search and seizure.
both the trial judge and the alberta court of appeal ruled that canadians had no reasonable expectation of privacy for their ip address. the supreme court disagreed.
“activity associated with the ip addresses can be correlated with other online activity associated with that address available to the state. an ip address can also set the state on a trail of internet activity that leads directly to a user’s identity,” the decision read.
“access to ip addresses without judicial pre-authorization poses intense privacy risks.”
police agencies used to routinely request what they called “basic subscriber information” from telecommunications companies – information such as names, ip addresses, physical addresses and telephone numbers.
but the supreme court ruling does not stop police from accessing ip addresses – just requires them to get a court order first, a process that law enforcement agencies have said takes time particularly for urgent cases.
the bc civil liberties association, which intervened in the case, welcomed the court’s majority decision friday and said it was “heartened” by the court’s recognition that privacy has become “ever more important” in the digital age.
“the reality today is that in order to engage in society to any degree, we really have to be able to go online. and so if the police have easy access to all of our online activity, which website we’re going to, who we’re talking to online, that creates a huge chilling effect on people’s behaviour,” vibert jack, the bccla’s director of litigation, told global in an interview.
“privacy rights are obviously implicated, but our freedom of expression, freedom of association, those rights would all be curtailed if we know the police could be watching us while we’re online.”
while the supreme court decision notes that the determining a reasonable expectation of privacy under the charter is an “exercise in balance,” it also noted that the internet has vastly expanded the amount of personal information
“the intensely private nature of the information an ip address may betray strongly suggests that the public’s interest in being left alone should prevail over the government’s interest in advancing its law enforcement goals,” the decision read.
###
California_Senate_race_poll_Garvey_support_surges_increasing: 
republican candidate for california's open u.s. senate seat steve garvey soared into a statistical tie with frontrunner democratic rep. adam schiff just days away from the march 5 primary, new polling indicates. in new figures released march 1 from the uc berkeley institute of governmental studies, former... read full story
ask about this article
related news
california senate race: steve garvey ties with adam schiff ahead of super tuesdayhindustan times 2024-03-05, 13:59
katie porter's fate comes down to the wire in california senate racethe hill 2024-03-04, 12:01
related news
popular news stories
ap / alex slitz, pool
ap / ariel schalit
ukrainian emergency service via ap photo
ap / fatima shbair
ap / (ukrainian emergency service via ap photo
creative commons / unsplash/add weed
###
article_6e294fe8-d763-11ee-884d-07dab984a993.html: 
windber, pa. – just days after the joyce murtha breast care center announced that surgeon dr. deborah sims is retiring, word came that dr. tyshaun james-hart is joining the center’s surgical team.
james-hart will join breast surgeon dr. trudi brown in april, chan soon-shiong medical center at windber announced in a press release.
“i am looking forward to joining the joyce murtha breast care center because it is clear to me that they value breast cancer care and breast health as their own entity as a science and service,” james-hart said. “they understand that it is an essential service that women in the community need and deserve.
“education, prevention, treatment and survivorship are essential components of breast health and breast cancer. the center is committed to this concept, and i am proud to join their team.”
james-hart has 27 years of experience as a surgeon and has specialized in treatment of benign and malignant breast disease for most of her career.
she performs breast biopsies as well as lumpectomies, mastectomies, nipple-sparing mastectomies and sentinel lymph node biopsies.
a graduate of joan c. edwards school of medicine at marshall university in huntington, west virginia, james-hart completed a general surgery residency at harlem hospital center in new york, where she served as chief resident for pediatric surgery and surgery. she then pursued a surgical oncology fellowship at roswell park cancer institute in buffalo, new york.
her career began with a position in surgery with northern generations/health and hospitals corp., of new york, and continued with surgical positions in newport news, virginia, and charleston and beckley, west virginia.
in 2011, she established a practice focused on breast care at women’s and children’s hospital in lafayette, louisiana.
most recently, james-hart served as a breast surgeon and surgical oncologist with upmc altoona.
she is certified by the american board of surgery and is an active member of the national medical association, the american society of breast surgeons and the society of surgical oncology.
james-hart will become the fourth breast surgeon to practice at the joyce murtha breast care center since it opened in 2002.
founding breast surgeon dr. dianna craig resigned in september 2014, taking a similar position with upmc altoona. that prompted the hiring of sims in october 2014. brown joined the local breast center in september 2018.
###
us-asylum-measure-aimed-at-curbing-claims-has-limited-impact-given-strained-border-budget: 
us asylum measure aimed at curbing claims has limited impact given strained border budget
tucson, ariz. (ap) — inside giant white tents that house about 1,000 migrants near tucson international airport, border patrol agents demonstrate clockwork efficiency to release detainees within two days of arrest with orders to appear in immigration courts at their final destinations. agents transmit information from the field to colleagues who prepare court papers while migrants are bused hours away to a processing center, minimizing time in custody.
notably missing from the operations hub in the busiest corridor for illegal crossings into the u.s. are asylum officers who do initial screenings, which are intended to weed out weak claims that don't meet narrowly prescribed grounds for seeking protection, such as race, religion and political opinion.
asylum officers were instructed nearly a year ago to apply a higher screening standard on those who cross the border illegally after passing though another country, such as mexico, but they are too understaffed to have much impact. the biden administration hails the higher standard as a cornerstone of its border policy in legal challenges, but its application in only a small percentage of arrests shows how budgets can fail to match ambitions.
strained budgets continue to loom large as the white house again considers sweeping measures to limit asylum at the border.
the failure of a $20 billion spending plan on border security this month has caused the administration to assess its priorities. u.s. immigration and customs enforcement, facing a $700 million hole this year, is considering cutting the number of detention beds from 38,000 to 22,000 and facilitating fewer deportation flights. these possible steps were first reported by the washington post and confirmed to the associated press by a u.s. official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it publicly.
the failed spending package crafted by senate negotiators would have given $4 billion to u.s. citizenship and immigration services, including to add 4,338 asylum officers to screen applicants and make final decisions on claims — more than four times current staffing.
arrests for illegal border crossings from mexico plunged to the second-lowest monthly rate of joe biden's presidency, a month after the higher standard replaced covid-19 pandemic-related asylum restrictions. the rule “is working as intended and has already significantly reduced encounters at the border,” blas nuñez-neto, assistant homeland security secretary for border and immigration policy, said in a court filing at the time.
asylum-seekers subject to tougher screenings had a 59% pass rate through september, down from 85% in the five years before the pandemic, nuñez-neto said in another court filing.
while that suggests the policy has made a difference, its scope has been limited. officers interviewed only 57,700 migrants under the new rule through september, according to nuñez-neto. that represents only about 15% of the nearly 365,500 migrants released by border patrol from june to september with notices to appear in immigration court.
the department of homeland security declined to provide more recent numbers. it insists the higher screening standard is working as intended, while acknowledging it has failed to keep pace with unprecedented migration flows and calling on congress to adequately fund the efforts.
asylum officers did more than 130,000 screenings, known as “credible fear interviews,” at the border during the 2023 budget year, which was more than double the year before. but more than 600,000 migrants were released with notices to appear in immigration court in that time and another 300,000 with orders to report to an immigration office for a court date, a practice that has largely ceased.
the border patrol released mbala giodi, 42, after holding him for two days when he crossed the border in remote mountains east of san diego. he was dropped off at a transit center and told he would have a chance to explain his case for asylum in court, with an initial hearing scheduled in new york in may.
“there wasn’t much problem,” said giodi, 42, who calls himself a victim of government repression for being a student protestor in angola.
to put the higher screening standard into effect, citizenship and immigration services added about 1,000 staff to assist an existing 850 or so asylum officers, training former asylum officers and other employees for short stints, said michael knowles, spokesman for the national citizenship and immigration services council. the union represents workers at the agency, which also oversees work visas, green cards, citizenship applications and asylum claims that originate away from the border.
assigning so many employees to border cases extended waits for other services, he said. weekend overtime was mandatory, as was holiday work.
“we’re so overwhelmed and there’s so much pressure,” knowles said. “part of the border crisis is they didn’t hire enough of us to do the work.”
a lack of resources hampered another biden policy that took effect in june 2022, empowering asylum officers to make final rulings on claims, not just screenings. it aimed to ease the workload of immigration judges, whose backlog of more than 3 million cases has allowed asylum-seekers with weak claims to stay in the united states for years — with eligibility for work permits — while their cases wind through the system.
fewer than 6,000 asylum cases had been decided under the 2022 policy by the end of september.
“that is a very important program that got very little support,” knowles said.
advocates for asylum-seekers have sued over application of the higher screening standard. they argue it unfairly penalizes those who cross the border illegally while a heavily oversubscribed online appointment system, called cbp one, is virtually the only way to come through an official port of entry. the standard remains in effect while a judge's ruling declaring the policy illegal is under appeal.
while migration flows dropped immediately after the higher standard took effect, border steady increased as migrants and smugglers adjusted to realities on the ground, peaking at an all-time high of 250,000 in december.
melissa crow, director of litigation at the center for gender & refugee studies, which is challenging the higher standard, said asylum-seekers eventually face tougher scrutiny before a judge even if the rule’s limited use at the border allows them to avoid screening. and, she said, congress and the white house may agree in the future to provide more money.
###
kentucky-legislature-school-bus-safety-0cb3c3d82ca7160cdf801b0b961e5dcf: 
kentucky house passes legislation aimed at curbing unruliness on school buses
frankfort, ky. (ap) — the kentucky house passed a bill friday aimed at curbing unruliness on school buses by requiring student and parental buy-in to transportation policies and setting clear consequences for misbehavior.
the measure sailed through the house on a 93-1 vote to advance to the senate. supporters said the goal is to offer relief to beleaguered bus drivers by setting expectations for students and parents.
misbehavor on school buses was termed a statewide issue, but the house discussion focused on kentucky’s largest school system, in louisville. in november the district was forced to cancel nearly 100 routes after bus drivers organized a sickout and 143 called off work, with student behavior cited as among their biggest concerns, the courier journal of louisville reported.
setting accountability is crucial to getting the problem under control, republican rep. kevin bratcher said.
“accountability — what happens when you get so far out of line that you’re stopping a school bus from operating,” he said. “you’re causing the school bus driver to quit their job.”
the bill would require local school boards statewide to adopt a policy outlining what’s expected of students riding school buses and the consequences for failing to meet those standards.
“drivers have a huge responsibility, and we should respect and address concerns thoroughly,” said republican rep. emily callaway, the bill’s lead sponsor.
in setting guidelines, boards would work off a model policy developed by the state education department.
students and parents would have to sign a document acknowledging the policy each school year, and failure to do so could be grounds for revoking bus-riding privileges.
each district’s policy would also establish procedures for investigating complaints and protecting those who bring them from retaliation. severe or repeated misconduct could also lead to a loss of bus-riding privileges.
“we must be sure that if a student puts him or herself, other riders or the driver in danger, the driver can act appropriately, swiftly and effectively,” callaway said. “this policy allows for that discretion.”
district policies would provide for expeditious reviews of driver complaints about student misbehavior, and drivers would be allowed to be heard during disciplinary procedures. they must also be notified of the outcome of disciplinary actions. if a driver continues to feel unsafe transporting a student, the driver would be allowed to opt out of transporting that student.
___
the legislation is house bill 446.
###
uk-pro-palestine-groups-hit-back-rishi-sunaks-extremism-speech: 
uk: pro-palestine groups and politicians hit back at rishi sunak's 'extremism' speech
pro-palestine groups have hit back at uk prime minister rish sunak after he claimed gaza demonstrations were indicative of "extremists" undermining british democracy.
in an impromptu speech on downing street on friday, sunak said the uk's "streets have been hijacked by small groups" that are threatening to "tear us apart", calling on the police to adopt a tougher stance toward gaza protests.
"we have seen a shocking increase in extremist disruption and criminality. what started as protests on our streets has descended into intimidation, threats, and planned acts of violence," he said.
earlier in the week, sunak said that there was a "growing consensus that mob rule is replacing democratic rule", in reference to the protests in the uk.
he said "this situation has gone on long enough", in reference to protesters, with a direct message that "threats of violence and intimidation are alien to our way of doing things".
stay informed with mee's newsletters
sign up to get the latest alerts, insights and analysis, starting with turkey unpacked
the speech, which came a surprise to many, was condemned by opposition politicians and campaigners, who said it appeared to threaten restrictions on the right to protest.
ben jamal, head of the palestine solidarity campaign (psc), said it was ironic that sunak wanted to deal with "extremists" considering the uk government's support for israel in the gaza war, which has so far killed more than 30,000 palestinians.
"maybe he should start with politicians, political commentators and religious leaders who support a state, on trial for genocide, in its mass slaughter, and deliberate creation of famine," he said on social media.
"not those protesting against it."
caroline lucas, the uk's sole green party mp, also criticised the speech.
"the mask has really dropped now, if there were any doubt who the real extremists are, it is sunak's government - threatening to take visas off protesters and stirring up anti-muslim hate," she tweeted.
just a few days ago, a coalition of groups, which regularly organises protests to demand a ceasefire in gaza, told journalists that "divisive rhetoric" by british mps and "selective media coverage" are driving calls to curb protest rights in britain.
pro-palestine organisations have levelled accusations against british politicians, claiming they are "creating a smokescreen" to shift focus away from demands for a ceasefire. this comes as pressure mounts on police to limit protests in central london.
protest groups raised concerns over reports by middle east eye that the community security trust was present in special police operations rooms during protests in london calling for a ceasefire in gaza. the trust describes itself as a charity that "protects british jews from antisemitism and related threats".
despite the criticism of sunak's speech on friday, however, the leader of the labour party keir starmer said he broadly supported the points made.
sunak was right to "advocate unity and to condemn the unacceptable and intimidatory behaviour that we have seen recently" said starmer in a statement, adding it was important for the prime minister to "defend our values".
in contrast, starmer's predecessor as party leader, jeremy corbyn, defended the right to protest and warned against sunak's rhetoric.
"protesting against the mass slaughter of civilians is not a threat to democracy. the real threat to democracy is a government that crushes our rights and silences our solidarity," he wrote on social media.
middle east eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the middle east, north africa and beyond. to learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees, please fill out this form. more about mee can be found here.
###
organizers-look-ahead-after-holding-final-coyote-squirrel-hunting-contests-in-new-york: 
for a limited time, you can get full access to breaking news, all original outdoor news stories and updates from the entire great lakes region and beyond, the most up-to-date fishing & hunting reports, lake maps, photo & video galleries, the latest gear, wild game cooking tips and recipes, fishing & hunting tips from pros and experts, bonus web content and much, much more, all on your smartphone, tablet or desktop for just a buck per month!
some restrictions apply. not valid with other promotions. $1 per month for 6 months (you will be billed $6) and then your subscription will renew at standard subscription rates. for more information see terms and conditions. this offer only applies to outdoornews.com and not for any outdoor news print subscriptions. offer valid thru 3/31/23.
already a subscriber to outdoornews.com? click here to login.
###
chief-executive-officer-sky-network-203656655.html: 
chief executive officer of sky network television picks up 14% more stock
even if it's not a huge purchase, we think it was good to see that sophie moloney, the chief executive officer of sky network television limited (nzse:skt) recently shelled out nz$85k to buy stock, at nz$2.82 per share. while we're hesitant to get too excited about a purchase of that size, we do note it increased their holding by a solid 14%.
see our latest analysis for sky network television
sky network television insider transactions over the last year
in the last twelve months, the biggest single purchase by an insider was when insider philip bowman bought nz$537k worth of shares at a price of nz$2.70 per share. so it's clear an insider wanted to buy, at around the current price, which is nz$2.77. of course they may have changed their mind. but this suggests they are optimistic. while we always like to see insider buying, it's less meaningful if the purchases were made at much lower prices, as the opportunity they saw may have passed. the good news for sky network television share holders is that insiders were buying at near the current price.
while sky network television insiders bought shares during the last year, they didn't sell. the chart below shows insider transactions (by companies and individuals) over the last year. by clicking on the graph below, you can see the precise details of each insider transaction!
there are plenty of other companies that have insiders buying up shares. you probably do not want to miss this free list of growing companies that insiders are buying.
insider ownership of sky network television
another way to test the alignment between the leaders of a company and other shareholders is to look at how many shares they own. a high insider ownership often makes company leadership more mindful of shareholder interests. based on our data, sky network television insiders have about 0.7% of the stock, worth approximately nz$2.8m. we consider this fairly low insider ownership.
so what does this data suggest about sky network television insiders?
the recent insider purchase is heartening. we also take confidence from the longer term picture of insider transactions. while the overall levels of insider ownership are below what we'd like to see, the history of transactions imply that sky network television insiders are reasonably well aligned, and optimistic for the future. so these insider transactions can help us build a thesis about the stock, but it's also worthwhile knowing the risks facing this company. to that end, you should learn about the 2 warning signs we've spotted with sky network television (including 1 which is a bit concerning).
but note: sky network television may not be the best stock to buy. so take a peek at this free list of interesting companies with high roe and low debt.
for the purposes of this article, insiders are those individuals who report their transactions to the relevant regulatory body. we currently account for open market transactions and private dispositions of direct interests only, but not derivative transactions or indirect interests.
have feedback on this article? concerned about the content? get in touch with us directly. alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.
this article by simply wall st is general in nature. we provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. it does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. we aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. simply wall st has no position in any stocks mentioned.
###
armenia-doing-its-best-to-reflect-two-agreed-principles-in-the-peace-treaty-rubinyan: 
it has been agreed that all regional communications must be unblocked based on the principles of sovereignty, jurisdiction, equality and reciprocity, deputy speaker of the armenian national assembly said at a panel discussion on “peace, development and interdependence in the south caucasus” held on the sidelines of the antalya diplomacy forum.
“we think that if we manage to write in these principles, which have already been agreed, in the peace treaty, this is quite achievable in a very short timeframe,” rubinyan said.
“from our side we are obviously ready to and are doing everything we can to reflect these principles in the peace treaty, but we have not seen so much eagerness from the azerbaijani side. but we hope we will reach this,” he added.
he said over the past years armenia and azerbaijan have agreed on the basic principles of peace – mutual recognition of each other’s territorial integrity based on the alma-ata declaration adopted by 12 post-soviet states when the soviet union was dissolved, which implies that the borders of the soviet socialist republics become interstate borders. the second principle is that delimitation and further demarcation of the state border between armenia and azerbaijan would be carried out on the basis of the alma-ata declaration,” he noted.
###
albemarle-county-grand-jury-hear-case-against-augusta-county-deputy: 
albemarle county grand jury to hear case against augusta county deputy
albemarle county, va. (wvir) - a judge is denying a motion to dismiss the case against the waynesboro man charged in connection with a police pursuit in albemarle county.
william anthony mikolay appeared in albemarle general district court thursday, february 29. he is charged with assault & battery and malicious wounding.
investigators say mikolay, a sergeant with the augusta county sheriff’s office, was pursing adam ryan martin on the morning of september 29, 2023, when the suspect crashed and tried to run away.
the defense told the court thursday that mikolay caught up to martin and that a fight ensued. they claim martin suffered head injuries after he was tazed in the back.
the suspect was taken to uva medical center for treatment.
virginia state police conducted an independent investigation into the incident. police obtained arrest warrants for mikolay on november 22.
mikolay was previously released on a $5,000 unsecured bond, and was last reported to be on paid administrative leave.
according to online records, mikolay’s two previous court hearings had been continued.
the case is scheduled to be presented to the grand jury on april 1.
related: augusta county sheriff’s office deputy arrested
do you have a story idea? send us your news tip here.
copyright 2024 wvir. all rights reserved.
###
14482192: 
suspect trivell pruitt facing murder charges for 1st innocent bystander killed
chicago (wls) -- the greater grand crossing community came together on friday night to pray for peace and to discuss an action plan for reducing violence in the city.
this all comes after a second innocent bystander who died wednesday following a shooting monday at 71st and state street was identified as 47-year-old jon rucker.
the worship prayer was held at shiloh seventh day adventist church to pray for the families of the two innocent bystanders who were shot and killed monday in greater grand crossing.
rucker and 59-year-old simon brown were shot monday evening near 71st and state streets.
brown was buying a lottery ticket for his wife when he was shot and rucker was hit while using a nearby atm. brown died at a hospital and rucker died on wednesday.
the meeting was filled with emotion as people rallied around brown's son, simon brown jr.
"i've really not felt alone since i heard about it. i've always been supported, now especially by the community," brown jr. said.
brown jr. says he'll move forward with the strength of his father watching over him.
"as they were praying, i was getting the image of him sitting up there looking down," brown jr. said. "whenever he was going through something, he'd say, 'i'm alright man.' that's all i kept hearing him say that."
police said 53-year-old trivell pruitt was charged with first-degree murder connected to brown's death. investigators said he exchanged gunfire with another man after an argument. brown and rucker were struck by the gunfire.
pruitt was among two others shot. police are still searching for the second shooter, who allegedly injured pruitt.
no murder charges have been filed in connection to rucker's death. chicago police did not have immediately have an update on charges on friday night.
hall is hoping his south side community uses its faith to work together to reduce violence during a worship and action gathering set for this evening at shiloh seventh day adventist church.
"we are together. we will get through this," said shiloh seventh day adventist church pastor john t. boston ii.
boston said a message is being sent by faith, business and community leaders following this senseless violence.
"it says, 'this community will not accept that this is normal.' we will find a way forward," boston said.
"even though we have to talk through the prism of pain, we're also going to talk through the window of possibility," said 6th ward ald. william hall.
hall has been leaning hard on his faith after a heavy week of loss in his ward.
"without faith, nothing is possible. so the work we are doing is centered around love. that is our least-common denominator," hall said.
hall has introduced a three-part action plan centered on serving and supporting one another and staying spiritually connected to hopefully reduce violence. he is confident it will work.
"we work together by simply being nosey neighbors. we have to get back to sitting on the porch. we have to get back to looking out the kitchen window. we have to get back to calling each other," hall said.
as the community prepares to work together, a judge has ordered pruitt to stay in jail as he awaits trial. he's expected back in court march 19 for preliminary hearing.
interactive safety tracker track crime and safety in your neighborhood
###
man-charged-with-trying-to-murder-officers-during-standoff-cincinnati-blue-ash-birch-hill-suites-swat-police-shots-fired-walls-door-drugs-gun-parole-violation: 
cincinnati (wkrc) - a man faces numerous charges for allegedly firing shots at officers during a standoff at a blue ash hotel wednesday.
police say brian bledsoe barricaded himself in a room at the birch hill suites on cornell road when police tried to serve a warrant for drugs and a parole violation.
bledsoe also allegedly refused to let a woman leave the room. the hotel was evacuated.
as members of the swat team attempted to arrest bledsoe, they say he shot at the officers through the door and walls of the hotel room. some bullets came within "inches" of hitting them, according to the assistant prosecutor. eight empty shell casings were found.
bledsoe is held on more than $12 million bond on 11 counts of attempted murder of an officer, 11 counts of felonious assault, kidnapping and gun charges.
###
indomitable-march-withdraw-forces-transfer-power-3557411: 
indomitable march: withdraw forces, transfer power
at a meeting organised at paltan maidan, bangabandhu sheikh mujibur rahman urged the authorities to withdraw forces from the city and hand over power to the elected representatives of the people.
he also called for launching a no-tax campaign.
bangabandhu, in an apparent reference to west pakistan leaders, said: "if you do not want to frame one constitution let us frame our own constitution and you frame your own. then let us see if we can live together as brothers."
he appealed for communal peace and added the biharis and non-muslims "are our sacred trust".
complete strikes were observed throughout bangladesh in response to bangabandhu's call.
spontaneous processions were brought out by general people.
several people were killed as the army opened fire on protesters. in rangpur, as fights broke out between pakistani army men and civilians, a 24-hour curfew was imposed from 2:30pm.
a curfew was also imposed in sylhet.
yahya's roundtable invitation
in the evening, there was a radio announcement proposing a roundtable conference of political leaders to be convened by president yahya khan in dhaka on march 10, 1971.
this was an effort to find a political solution to the situation in east pakistan after the sine die postponement of the national assembly.
yahya took the decision in consultation with zulfikar ali bhutto at a meeting held on march 2.
sheikh mujibur rahman rejected yahya's invitation to the meeting, terming it a "cruel joke" since it followed the "widespread killing of the unarmed civilian population".
###
cil-bhel-to-jointly-set-up-ammonium-nitrate-unit-in-state: 
new delhi: public sector giants coal india limited (cil) and bharat heavy electricals limited (bhel) have signed a joint venture (jv) agreement for setting up an ammonium nitrate plant based on surface coal gasification technology in odisha. the coal ministry announcement wednesday said the plant to come up in lakhanpur area of mahanadi coalfields limited (mcl), will initially produce 2,000 tonnes of ammonium nitrate per day.
the annual production is slated at 6.60 lakh tonnes which requires 1.3 million tonnes (mts) of coal. the coal will be supplied by cil. bhel will bring to the table indigenously developed pressurised fluidised bed gasification (pfbg) technology for this purpose. the synergy and partnership of the two corporate giants is a big step towards national coal gasification mission which facilitates utilisation of chemical properties of coal, the coal ministry said. ammonium nitrate is a major ingredient in manufacturing bulk explosives which cil uses in large quantities in its open-cast mining operations, a major source of its coal production. the upcoming plant’s backward integration would help in securing the raw material, reducing import dependence of ammonium nitrate and promoting atmanirbhar bharat abhiyaan. coal secretary amrit lal meena said that with the commitment of cil and bhel, this project will be a role model. gasification is the highest priority area for the ministry of coal.
in the next two to three years there will be sufficient coal. all the possible support required from the government is in place including financial support for viable gap funding. debasish nanda, director (business development) cil, and jai prakash srivastava, director (engineering, r&d) bhel signed the joint venture agreement on behalf of respective promoter companies. cil will pursue alternative uses of coal for environment-friendly ventures like coal gasification in the future after fulfilling the requirements of the power sector. scg is a promising technology that converts coal into valuable syn gas. on further processing, this produces synthetic natural gas that can be used as alternative natural gas.
###
sikorsky-plans-new-vtol-systems-nigeria-gets-cn235-220-from-indonesia-putin-agains-warns-of-risk-of-nuclear-war-0241104: 
americas
boeing won a $21.3 million firm-fixed-price contract modification for the f-15 eagle passive/active warning survivability system. work will be performed at nashua, new hampshire, and is expected to be completed by november 30, 2025. the air force life cycle management center, wright-patterson air force base, ohio, is the contracting activity.
sikorsky has announced a bold venture into the future of vertical flight with its plans to develop a family of next-generation vertical take-off and landing (vtol) systems. this initiative aims to push the boundaries of existing technology and explore diverse configurations – ranging from more traditional helicopters to winged configurations – to address the evolving needs of the aerial mobility landscape. the cornerstone of this effort is the construction and testing of a hybrid-electric vertical takeoff and landing demonstrator (hex / vtol). this aircraft, featuring a tilt-wing configuration, will boast a maximum gross weight of 9,000 pounds. to achieve this, the demonstrator will leverage a 1.2-megawatt-class turbogenerator and associated power electronics. this hybrid-electric approach signifies sikorsky’s commitment to exploring alternative propulsion technologies with the potential to reduce emissions and noise signature compared to conventional vtol designs. notably, the aircraft will also be equipped with an advanced autonomy system, paving the way for optionally piloted flight.
middle east & africa
nigeria has taken a step towards bolstering its military transport capabilities by acquiring four cn235-220 multipurpose aircraft from indonesia. this marks the first export order for pt dirgantara indonesia (ptdi) in 2024 and signifies a significant development in bilateral defence cooperation between the two nations. according to ptdi’s statement at the singapore airshow 2024, it is currently in the process of obtaining a new procurement contract for 4 units of the cn235-220 multipurpose aircraft with allied aeronautics limited (aal), a local aerospace company in nigeria for the nigerian air force end user.
europe
according to defense news, several european nations have sourced hundreds of thousands of 122-millimeter artillery rounds from abroad to donate to ukraine, a move that experts say will help bridge kyiv’s ammunition shortage against invading russian forces during a critical time of the war. the latest military package bound for ukraine, announced this month by the german government, included over 120,000 artillery projectiles of the soviet-standard caliber. the berlin government specified that the deliveries were coming from industry stocks financed with public funds.
asia-pacific
australian navy personnel have begun training with recently acquired sea mines, air vice marshall leon philips revealed at a recent event. “the first batch of modern sea mines have been received and have been used in maritime training by our navy,” naval news quoted the chief of guided weapons and explosive ordnance (gweo) as saying during the 21st annual australian defence magazine congress. australia’s defense department purchased the “smart” mines from rwm italia last year as part of project sea 2000 maritime mining.
russian president vladimir putin warned thursday of a “real” risk of nuclear war if the west escalates the conflict in ukraine, offering a defiant and emboldened stance in his annual speech to russians. speaking in moscow, putin said his soldiers were advancing in ukraine and warned the west of “tragic consequences” for any country that dared to send troops to kyiv. “they have announced the possibility of sending western military contingents to ukraine… the consequences for possible interventionists will be much more tragic,” he said in his address to the nation.
today’s video
###
fps-approves-2-new-schools-focused-on-self-directed-learning-mental-health: 
fargo public schools approves 2 new schools focused on self-directed learning, mental health
the fargo school board approved the schools, which will be established in existing buildings.
fargo — the fargo school board has voted to establish two new academic models or “schools” in the district — one prioritizing individualized learning and the other mental health.
during its tuesday, feb. 27 meeting, the board unanimously approved a self-directed academy and a mental health therapeutic school at explorer academy, with both starting this fall.
superintendent rupak gandhi said the first is an innovative approach to benefit students who may underperform in a traditional setting, while the second will prioritize students' mental health while providing them an education.
the self-directed academy will initially be for grades six through eight, and later k-8.
it will first be housed at the fps agassiz building at 1305 9th ave. s., gandhi said, with hopes that the district’s current long-range facilities planning will identify a future, permanent site.
advertisement
the academy is not a hybrid or virtual model, and students will have to meet the same standards as those in the traditional setting but at their own pace.
“all of the instruction in this building is still in person. it's just not bound by time,” gandhi said.
a team of five or six educators, including student teachers, paraprofessionals and certified teachers, will be assigned to between 100 to 120 students. the academy could grow to as many as 400 students, with staff increasing accordingly, he said.
students will be transported by shuttle from their home middle school campus to the academy and back at the end of the school day for any activities they’re involved in, he said.
though the concept was unanimously approved, board members and fargo education association president grant kraft had plenty of concerns and questions beforehand.
kraft said educators have asked him how staffing will work, and whether staff transfers will be voluntary or involuntary.
gandhi said he anticipates some current staff will apply and the district may need to make new hires.
board member katie christianson expressed concern that enrollment will decline in traditional middle schools if many students move to the academy.
advertisement
she wondered whether specialized programs like foreign languages or music could then be affected.
“i don't view this as a threat to our comprehensive schools,” gandhi said.
academy to follow arizona model
the school district made its first official step toward a self-directed academy when the board gave administration the go-ahead to begin exploring and planning the idea last september.
the action also allowed the district to submit an innovation waiver to the state department of public instruction.
gandhi said he’s confident the department will grant the waiver, allowing the district to start enrolling students in the academy.
the academy will follow the next education workforce model developed by arizona state university’s mary lou fulton teachers college.
several fps administrators traveled to arizona last fall to learn more about it, and several more will go in a few weeks, gandhi said.
the academy fits in with one of the district’s strategic initiatives calling for “continuous improvement” for students with disparate outcomes.
advertisement
in a traditional school model, teachers must embed state standards in a school calendar and follow a pacing schedule of when to introduce new material to students.
students who are regularly absent or more mobile, transferring in or out of a district, will miss certain instruction.
when assessed later, they might underperform not because they don't have the ability to show proficiency but solely because they weren’t there, gandhi said.
the academy is modeled after a school in wilder, idaho that serves primarily migrant communities with high mobility rates.
“it's been wildly successful and it's been a model that we've thought would be very successful for some of our students,” gandhi said.
mental health prioritized
at the tuesday meeting, the board also unanimously approved establishment of a mental health therapeutic school to be located at explorer academy, the district’s k-8 special education school at 1780 17th st. s.
while the primary purpose of explorer academy won’t change, part of the building will be used for the non-public, day treatment center, a board memo said.
a partnering agency, specializing in therapeutic mental health services, will run the treatment center, with fargo public schools being the exclusive provider of academic instruction.
advertisement
as a public entity governed by the department of public instruction, the district is limited to k-12 academics, gandhi said, and can’t bill a family’s insurance plan for services provided, for example.
“we can't be a treatment provider because we're educators and not healthcare providers, so this is an avenue to partner together with a health care provider to bridge that gap,” he said.
a non-public school can prioritize therapeutic treatment and schedule academics around that treatment, rather than dictate a majority of time be spent on academics, he added.
after some board members expressed concerns about the arrangement of operating a non-public school within a public school, gandhi assured them that the dpi presented the idea as a viable option.
he also said it will be a similar set up to the school district's agreement with nexus-path's luther hall, a residential treatment facility for boys and girls ages 10-17, where fps provides academic instruction.
the district expects to start hearing proposals from organizations interested in operating the mental health therapeutic school starting march 6.
advertisement
advertisement
###
how-humans-lost-their-tails-and-why-the-discovery-took-2-5-years-to-publish.html: 
ewen callaway in nature:
geneticist bo xia asked that question as a child and it was on his mind again a few years ago, while he was recovering from a tailbone injury during his phd at new york university (nyu) in new york city. xia and his colleagues now have an answer. the researchers identified a genetic change shared by humans and other apes that might have contributed to their ancestors’ tail loss, some 25 million years ago. mice carrying similar alterations to their genomes had short or absent tails, the researchers found — but that insight was hard won. the work was published on 28 february1: nearly 900 days after being submitted to nature and posted as a preprint, because of extra work needed to develop several strains of gene-edited mice and demonstrate that the genetic changes had the predicted effect.
“respect to the authors,” says malte spielmann, a human geneticist at kiel university in germany, who reviewed the paper for nature. “i’m incredibly excited about the fact that they’ve really pulled it off.”
the mice with no tails
unlike most monkeys, apes — including humans — and their close extinct relatives don’t have tails. their coccyx, or tailbone, is a vestige of the vertebrae that constitute a tail in other animals. finding the genetic basis for this trait wasn’t what xia, now at the broad institute of mit and harvard in cambridge, massachusetts, planned to devote his phd to. but his coccyx injury, sustained during a cab ride, reinvigorated his tail curiosity.
more here.
###
brigadier-seif-salim-rashid-assumes-kdf-atmis-contingent-command: 
nairobi, kenya, mar 1 – brigadier seif salim rashid has officially taken over as the new contingent commander of kenyan troops serving with the african union transition mission in somalia (atmis), succeeding brigadier william kamoiro.
the handover ceremony was held at atmis kenya defence forces (kdf) headquarters in dhobley, somalia.
brig. kamoiro, who completed his tour of duty, commended the troops for their efforts in countering the somalia-based al-qaeda linked terrorist outfit, al shabaab and other illegal armed groups within the area of responsibility.
“during my tenure as the commander of sector two, we have operated within the atmis mandate in line with the somali transition plan (stp),” said brig. kamoiro on tuesday.
he highlighted the successful pacification of the jubaland area and the protection of civilian population as major achievements during his tenure.
“kdf atmis troops and somali security forces (ssf) have pacified jubaland area under our control and protected the civilian populations. this is through conduct of operations to disrupt and degrade al-shabaab capability with our partners in the theatre,” he added.
the outgoing commander also praised atmis kdf troops for their support of the somali-led transition process, including capacity building and integration of ssf.
“we have supported the capacity building and integration of ssf by conducting training, mentorship through planning and joint operation as well as providing operation support and strategic advice to ssf,” he observed.
brig. seif reiterated his commitment to upholding the legacy of his predecessor.
“we reaffirm our commitment to the mission objectives outlined by the african union and the international community and primarily the people of somalia, whom we are entrusted to protect,” stated brig. seif.
he urged troops to remain vigilant, considering the evolving security challenges, and echoed the call by the kenya chief of defence forces (cdf), general francis ogola, for unity and determination in restoring regional peace and stability.
###
afghanistans-benafsha-yaqoobi-wins-us-woman-of-courage-award: 
benafsha yaqoobi from afghanistan is receiving an international women of courage award from the united states.
the us department of state announced yaqoobi from afghanistan and 11 other women as winners of the 2024 women of courage award, as per a statement released on friday, march 1st. yaqoobi was recognized for her support of visually impaired individuals in afghanistan.
the statement further highlighted her years of work as a defense lawyer for women survivors of violence. she co-founded the “rahyab organization” with her husband in 2008, focusing on the education and empowerment of visually impaired individuals.
yaqoobi herself is visually impaired and, according to the us state department, tirelessly advocates for disabled citizens of afghanistan. the women of courage award is presented annually to women who have worked in peace, justice, courage, leadership, human rights, and gender equality.
she currently resides outside of afghanistan and is scheduled to receive the award on march 4th. afghanistan acceded to the international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in 2012, obligating the country to support healthcare and education for visually impaired individuals.
meanwhile, yazdani parast, a blind journalist, tells khaama press that the attention from supporting organizations for visually impaired individuals in afghanistan has decreased. he adds, “visually impaired individuals need urgent assistance during this cold winter season and the arrival of the month of ramadan.”
although there is no precise data on the number of visually impaired individuals in afghanistan currently, according to un estimates in 2016, they exceeded 400,000, with 1.5 million individuals having visual impairments.
###
egypt-remains-committed-to-sudans-security-and-will-continue-to-help-mitigate-its-humanitarian-crisis-sisi: 
president abdel fattah al-sisi on thursday received the chairman of the transitional sovereignty council of sudan, abdel fattah burhan, at the cairo international airport.
the spokesperson for the egyptian presidency, counselor ahmed fahmy, stated that sisi affirmed the uniqueness of the historical ties between egypt and sudan, and assured of his nation’s desire to strengthen joint cooperation between both countries.
the meeting reviewed developments in sudan and efforts aimed at settling the current crisis in order to restore stability, preserve the sovereignty, unity and cohesion of the sudanese state and its institutions, and achieve lasting security and stability.
egypt is committed to preserving sudan’s security, he said, and will provide continued support to achieve its political, security and economic stability.
it will also continue to support sudan’s unity and resolve the existing conflict, as the national security of both countries is closely intertwined.
sisi further stressed egypt’s continued commitment to playing its role in alleviating the humanitarian strain the conflict has wrought on the sudanese people.
the spokesperson added that the chairman of the sudanese sovereignty council affirmed his country’s great appreciation for egypt’s support, which reflects the long-standing historical ties that unite the two countries – as showcased by egypt’s role towards receiving sudanese citizens and alleviating the impact of the crisis.
the meeting also discussed the latest developments in regional issues of common interest, including the situation in the gaza strip, where the need to stop the ceasefire and enforce humanitarian aid was emphasized.
they also agreed to continue intensive consultations and mutual coordination within the coming period.
###
a1511312.html: 
gaza, march 2 : a total of 30,320 palestinians have been killed in israel's military offensive in the gaza strip, the hamas-run health ministry said in a statement on saturday.
the israeli army killed 92 palestinians and wounded 156 others in the past 24 hours, bringing the death toll to 30,320 and injuries to 71,533 since the israel-hamas conflict broke out on october 7, 2023, according to the statement.
among them, 15 died in al-aqsa hospital in the city of deir al-balah due to an israeli airstrike targeting two houses, and two others were killed in an airstrike targeting a house in jabalia in the northern gaza strip, xinhua news agency reported.
ten people were killed in israeli air raids on neighborhoods of al-zaytoun, tal al-hawa, al-sabra and al-daraj in gaza city, added the sources.
meanwhile, in the northern gazan town of beit hanoun, a group of people picking herbs to satisfy hunger were targetted in an israeli artillery shelling, with three of them killed and seven others injured, according to eyewitnesses.
in rafah, in the far south, an israeli drone bombed a civilian vehicle in the al-shaboura neighborhood in the centre of the city, killing two people and wounding a third. they were transferred to the kuwaiti hospital.
israel has been launching a large-scale offensive against hamas in the gaza strip to retaliate against a hamas rampage through the southern israeli border on october 7, 2023, during which about 1,200 people were killed and more than 200 were taken hostage.
###
we-have-suffered-too-much-friday-protests-continue-in-kafr-qaduum: 
1 march 2024 | international solidarity movement | kafr qaduum
it is friday, and the call to prayer is heard in the rural village of kafr qaduum, west of nablus in the northern part of the west bank. the streets are quiet, empty except some children playing and a few cars heading early to the masjid. around 11am, some men and boys gather and drink coffee off the main road next door. younger children play and laugh. the scene appears calm if expectant, with an underlying tension. like every friday, after prayer, villagers march in protest of the closure of their village’s main road and against the israeli occupation.
protests are a regular part of life in rural villages across palestine–some as far back as the second intifada. but in most parts of the west bank unarmed protest marches left off after october 7th, when soldiers and settlers took advantage of hamas’ attacks to unleash a wave of violence, terrorism, land and resource theft against their palestinian neighbors. while before, the military used principally tear gas, sound bombs, and rubber coated steel bullets to disperse protestors, since the 7th villagers of kafr qaduum report encountering exclusively live gunfire.
israeli drone flying over the protestors. @ism
but protests in kafr qaduum never stopped. abu masseib, former mayor of the village, proudly states they have marched for the opening of their main road every friday for 13 years–ever since the israeli courts refused to uphold their rights. he reports that while military aggression has made protesting more dangerous, the villagers have persisted, adapting their practices to minimize harm. fewer villagers go out each week, they move cautiously and report back and withdraw quickly if military movements are observed. in spite of these precautions, masseib reports that the military have caused serious injuries. since 2011, he states that over 100 villagers have been shot with live ammunition. over 150 were arrested, he says, for weeks to as long as a year. while none have died, 2 children suffered horrifying brain injuries from “less lethal” rounds to the head. just last week a youth was shot in the face, but survived when the bullet rebounded into his jaw. many more villagers have lost eyes or suffered serious injuries to legs or stomach. in a group of 14 palestinian youths and adults sitting with us, he says “10 of us have been shot with live [ammunition]”.
when asked why he thinks the people of kafr qaduum continue to protest when other villages have paused marches, he says, “we had this issue before oct 7th; we want a free road. we have suffered too much; we understand the occupation.” over 50% of the village is in area c–parts of the west bank annexed by israel, made available for israeli settlement and off limits to palestinians. this includes most of the villagers’ olive trees, their primary agricultural production and of immense symbolic value. “it hurts all the people of the village,” abu maseib says.
today the military presence is mostly hidden. a low flying drone watches overhead, and four soldiers’ helmets and hair peek out over the closest hill. the protest moves conservatively, quietly, without shouted slogans or flung stones. still the palestine red crescent ambulance and media are ready to respond and document military aggression. the protest ends abruptly when report comes of military movements, and we — the only internationals present–are shuttled safely out of town before anything escalates.
it is hard to guess whether solidarity activist presence acts as a deterrent these days. indeed, organizer murad shtaiwi reports there haven’t been other solidarity activists present since october 7th. villagers worry about exposing outsiders to the level of violence they themselves experience on a weekly and sometimes daily basis. murad reports that much of the violence occurs during the week, when soldiers enter the village to damage property, arrest protestors identified in drone photos, or just fire guns indiscriminately. he shares a phone video that clearly shows soldiers firing their weapons at head height and up into residential buildings. these are not shots intended only to frighten or disperse, but to injure and kill.
before solidarity activists are driven away, everyone walks together back to the relative safety of home. murad affirms that this is good timing. “it is an honor,” he says, “for us to have martyrs; but it is a greater honor to have living children”.
###
PLOW6AN7JRGEDKK4LQNBYTFENQ: 
blue ash — a man is in custody after he allegedly fired shots at swat officers at an ohio hotel.
>>bbb warning of possible repair scams following this week’s tornadoes
blue ash officers were dispatched in hamilton county at the birch hill suites on wednesday after initial calls about a hostage situation, according to our news partner wcpo in cincinnati.
police say a woman was also being held hostage.
officers said brian bledsoe, 40, fired seven times, but the bullets did not hit anyone.
“we got very lucky,” said scott noel, blue ash police chief. “i would assume if this happened a bunch of times, we would have people injured.”
the woman was found safe with no injuries.
online jail records indicate that bledsoe is in the hamilton county jail.
he is facing more than a dozen charges, including 11 counts of both felonious assault and attempted murder of a police officer, wcpo says.
a judge has set bond at $12 million.
©2024 cox media group
###
article-789656: 
since the israel-hamas war broke out, we have witnessed israel’s long arm of counter-terrorism operations (at least those we read about), such as the assassination of a hamas leader with a well-placed rocket through a window, and a raid into a palestinian hospital. unlike the aerial assassination, the hospital raid required boots in the hallways.
the bravery of the idf, shin bet, and police yamam counter-terrorism squads is unmatched. yet both of these events reminded me in some respects of the death of another terrorist in october 1995 – fathi shikaki, the leader of palestine islamic jihad (pij).
in april of that year, my 20-year-old daughter, alisa, was riding on a bus near the jewish community of kfar darom in gaza. alisa was on what she thought would be a three-day vacation before passover. in a phone call to me while waiting for her bus in jerusalem, which would be the first leg of her journey, she told me she “wanted to get a few days in the sun” before the holiday. it would be the last time we spoke.
she never completed that bus journey because a van parked alongside the road outside the gates to kfar darom suddenly sped from the shoulder of the road and struck the bus on its right side. the driver then ignited a massive bomb packed inside the van.
pij took credit for the attack in a series of messages relayed to the media and to a college professor in the united states. (i would learn later that pij did not act alone; the bomb was made by hamas’s master bomber, yayha ayyash, “the engineer,” who himself would be assassinated in early 1996.)
it was a friday afternoon in october that same year when shikaki stepped out of a hotel on the mediterranean island of malta. two men on a motorcycle stopped opposite him and shot him at point-blank range. while no one took credit for the attack, it was conveyed to me by a caller that i might take some sense of justice delivered from the death of this man. my understanding was that shikaki’s death was carried out by israel’s long arm of retribution – think post-munich massacre. and the murder of alisa and seven others at kfar darom was worthy of an effort to track down and eliminate the head of pij.
word of the assassination and its link to alisa’s murder resulted in my being interviewed by a new york city news station. i must have looked like a deer in the headlights when asked for my feelings about shikaki’s death; all i could think of saying was “i am not going to sit shiva for him.”
other terrorists have died at the hands of the idf, and i am sure israeli agents. blame for the drone attack that killed one of hamas’s senior leaders, saleh al-arouri, was quickly placed by hamas supporters at israel’s feet.
the social media response was interesting. a general strike was called in the palestinian authority territory in the west bank, his mother was grateful he died as a martyr, his “hope,” she said. a video was posted, allegedly showing an idf soldier handing out candy, as is frequently done in palestinian areas when israelis are murdered in terror attacks.
it’s the comments from the pro-israel side that got me thinking about the issue i raise. from a limited reading of coverage in israeli media, i came across these comments: “whoever did the bombing, may they be more successful bombing the rest of the leadership of iran,” “it’s a good day when terrorists die,” “what good news. more please.” “wonderful news, just delightful – and long overdue.” and “mazal tov.”
what should we feel when a terrorist dies?
so, what are we supposed to feel when someone responsible for the deaths of israeli civilians meets his own end?
many years ago, i was puzzled by the different hallel we say on the first day of passover (two days in the diaspora) and on hol hamoed – the intermediate days of the holiday. hallel, praises to god, is 18 paragraphs, but on hol hamoed passover it’s shortened to 10 paragraphs. however, on sukkot, the full hallel is recited each day of the holiday. i am not the only person who has asked why there is a difference; the question has been discussed for centuries.
taking a legalistic approach to the differences, on sukkot the number of sacrifices offered in the temple set forth separately in the torah. think of each day as a separate holiday deserving its own obligation to recite hallel. on passover, however, the torah says about the sacrifices, “similarly shall you do each day for seven days.” in the words of rabbi basil herring, “it is as if each day of passover is merely an extension of the first” and therefore do not require the recital of the full hallel.
there is also a spiritual approach.
the talmud relates the children of israel crossing through the sea of reeds and assembling on the other side. moses composed a song; miriam did, too; and the children of israel were joyful about the drowning of the egyptians in the sea.
in addition, the talmud relates that the heavenly angels also began to sing praises, when a heavenly voice thunders and says, “stop your celebration, the egyptians are my children, too.” while a full hallel is appropriate on the first day(s) of passover, in commemoration of that voice we diminish our joy of the holiday by saying a shorter version during hol hamoed.
when the almighty punishes murderers, we can rejoice but not by jumping for joy or extending a mazal tov to the idf. instead, we find our thanks in the hallel in both the full of the first days of passover and the half of hol hamoed and the days at the end of the holiday. as despicable and vile that terrorists such as fathi shikaki, yahya ayash, and saleh al-arouri were, we should not celebrate their deaths. heaven doesn’t want us to.
the writer is the president of the religious zionists of america (rza). he is the father of alisa flatow, who was murdered in an iranian-sponsored palestinian terrorist attack in 1995, and author of a father’s story: my fight for justice against iranian terror.
note: the rza is not affiliated with any american or israeli political party.
###
pepco-hungary-loses-eur-15-mln-in-phishing-attack: 
pepco hungary loses eur 15 mln in phishing attack
image by grand warszawski / shutterstock.com
the hungarian business of european discount retailer pepco group has suffered a phishing attack, resulting in about eur 15 million of losses, it said in a press release.
"it is unclear at this stage whether the funds can be recovered, although pepco is pursuing various efforts through its banking partners and the police," the company said.
the incident does not appear to have involved any customer, supplier or staff data, it added.
pepco said the group had a strong balance sheet with access to more than eur 400 mln in liquidity from cash and credit facilities and continued to generate strong cash flow from its operations.
"the group takes financial controls and it security extremely seriously and is currently conducting a group-wide review of all systems and processes to secure the business more robustly going forward," it said in the press release.
support the budapest business journal
producing journalism that is worthy of the name is a costly business. for 27 years, the publishers, editors and reporters of the budapest business journal have striven to bring you business news that works, information that you can trust, that is factual, accurate and presented without fear or favor.
newspaper organizations across the globe have struggled to find a business model that allows them to continue to excel, without compromising their ability to perform. most recently, some have experimented with the idea of involving their most important stakeholders, their readers.
we would like to offer that same opportunity to our readers. we would like to invite you to help us deliver the quality business journalism you require. hit our support the bbj button and you can choose the how much and how often you send us your contributions.
###
i-wish-i-had-never-come-to-the-uk-palestinian-academic-despairs-of-getting-visas-for-family-stuck-in-gaza: 
when bassem abudagga heard in 2022 that he had won a british council scholarship to do his phd in britain, he was elated. “i was so proud,” he recalls. “it is what every academic in palestine hopes for: to gain a qualification from the uk.
“it felt like a turning point for my career, my future, my family. it would shift my prospects to a completely different place.”
full of optimism, abudagga, a lecturer in business studies at al-azhar university in gaza, which has since been destroyed by israeli bombardment, arrived in the uk that october to take up his place at york st john university. his scholarship is one of many awarded annually under a prestigious scheme run by the british council to build the capacity of palestinian universities. “this was a british investment in me and in my country,” he says.
abudagga’s only regret was that he would have to live apart for long periods from his wife, marim, and two children, karim, now four, and talya, nine. while the whole family could have applied for visas to accompany abudagga, the british council made clear it could only cover the costs for him alone. it would have been too expensive for them all to leave gaza, but it would be for the best in the long run, they believed.
almost a year and a half later, the pride and excitement have long gone, and abudagga is desperate. he wishes he had never come here. “at the beginning, i was so happy,” he tells the observer. “now i am just full of regret, that i am not with my family, when they are in such danger.”
his wife and children are trapped in gaza, in acute and constant danger, living in increasingly desperate conditions. every day he calls them on malfunctioning phone lines to hear the latest harrowing news of food and water shortages, illness, bombing and destruction, and the loss of friends.
if that is not painful enough, abudagga faces another unequal challenge: confronting the same uk authorities that were so keen to welcome him here just two years ago, in the hope of persuading them to help him bring his family to safety.
the authorities have told him repeatedly that before they can get the visa application process off the ground, his wife must have fingerprints taken in gaza and fill out the necessary forms. the only trouble is, abudagga says, there are no facilities left to get fingerprinting done in gaza – no communication system, no help, no infrastructure. so it is impossible to complete this first set of tasks before being able to cross the border to egypt to complete the application process.
as one british source put it: “there are uk families and people with uk relatives getting out. so it can be done. you have to wonder how much of this is to do with the uk not wanting to give visas to palestinians.”
on the morning of 7 october last year, marim rang her husband from the family’s home in abasan, near khan younis, and told him of the hamas attacks, in which more than 1,300 israelis had been murdered. “she said ‘we are now in a conflict zone’,” he recalls. “i knew from that moment that i had to get my family out and bring them here. the rules are clear that they are eligible to come to the uk to be with me. i was very frightened, very afraid.”
since then, marim and the two children have moved five times as the israeli assaults have intensified and spread. two weeks ago, karim became ill and it was a desperate struggle to find medicine.
marim, talya and karim are currently living inside the european hospital in khan younis, near rafah, the town that is under threat of imminent israeli attack. “my son became traumatised and depressed by the sound of the carpet bombing,” says abudagga. “i would ring them and i would hear it in the background all the time. the hospital is so big it is the only place where he cannot hear the sound of the bombing.”
his case has been taken up by labour mps rachael maskell, the member for york central, and rebecca long bailey, who represents salford and eccles, where abudagga lives and lectures part time.
maskell said: “through the british council, the uk government invited mr abudagga to the uk as an academic to study. his family could have resided with him. they now have a duty to support his family to be reunited safely with him.”
long bailey said: “this is an urgent and harrowing situation. the government must establish an emergency family reunion visa scheme for desperate families impacted like this.”
a foreign office spokesman said: “the safety of british nationals is our top priority. we have helped more than 300 british nationals and their dependants to leave gaza. a small number of eligible persons remain and we are working with israeli and egyptian authorities to support the rest of those who want to leave.”
the british council said it was urgently supporting abudagga’s case.
###
202403010325.html: 
...meets state energy commissioners
amid widespread rationing and dwindling generation, the minister of power, chief adebayo adelabu has said that the federal government is poised to address challenges facing power supply in the country.
chief adelabu who stated this during a meeting with state commissioners of energy in abuja said irregular power supply in the country would end soon.
his assurance comes at a time when the country's power generation is at its lowest level following the decision by gas suppliers to limit supply over $1.2 billion debt.
a statement by the minister's special adviser, strategic communications and media relations, mr bolaji tunji said the government would collaborate with state governments to improve supply.
addressing the forum which had 23 states in attendance, adelabu said with the efforts put in place to address the challenges in the sector, nigerians should be patient as irregular power supply would soon be a thing of the past in the country.
he said: "we are poised to address the root cause of the electricity challenge. we have done enough diagnostics, we know the cause of the problem, we are now in the implementation stage. we have realised that in the past, temporary solutions were applied to the challenges without dealing with the root cause".
the minister who used the opportunity to encourage state governments to take advantage of the new electricity act and get involved, added that the electricity act has brought about unity in diversity.
he enjoined the federal and state governments to seize the opportunity to work together.
"you can always call on me to intervene, i will stand by you and i know once the states start to perform and take up further responsibilities, it means i have also performed.
"when each of the states starts getting involved, there would be healthy rivalry akin to what we used to have in the days of regional government".
adelabu drew attention to abia state where geometrics power limited has established a 188 megawatts power generating plant supplying and distributing power to between seven and eight local government areas in the state.
"they enjoy 24 hours power supply, this is what we want states to also adopt. it might look difficult, but with tenacity and if we endure, it is achievable", he said.
the minister advised the state government to get involved in distribution networks in their states and also bridging the meter gap.
"you can then discuss with the discos on how to capitalise your investment. state government can get involved in picking the executive management of the discos. you already have about 40 percent of the shares of the discos. you need to discuss with the ministry of finance incorporated (mofi) on the shares. if a state buys about 10, 000 meters, all that needs to be done is to agree with the discos on capitalising the investment".
earlier, chairman of the forum who is also the commissioner of power and energy, cross river state, prince eka williams re-affirmed unflinching support towards the outstanding visions, ideas and the electricity reforms of the federal government.
he noted that the electricity act has given the states the responsibility of running the affairs of electricity in the state.
###
24153206.bristol-stabbings-this-cannot-go-on-says-mark-shelford: 
in the few years i have been the police and crime commissioner for avon and somerset, i have had the heart-breaking duty of responding to several fatal stabbings.
it is indeed a heart-breaking duty. the three fatal stabbings in bristol recently have moved me to speak.
to think about these children with their whole lives ahead of them, who have had their lives taken, the loss to their families, and also the loss to the families of those who commit these crimes — it makes the heart ache. and things don’t need to be like this.
unfortunately, this is not isolated to one month, one area, or one gang.
according to the home office, there were nearly 49,000 crimes in england and wales involving knives or sharp objects during the year ending september 2023, and data from nhs digital shows there were 3,775 “hospital episodes” recorded in english hospitals in 2022/23 that were due to assault by sharp objects.
this cannot go on.
i want us to think about how we, collectively, can stop it. how do we reach out early enough to the young people who end up involved in knife crime? how can we alter the course of their lives?
the home office, councils, and charities are trying hard to fix the problem. i know from working with these caring people that their shoulder is to the wheel. time and money invested in creating opportunities provided by dedicated professionals. but it is not enough. we need answers as to why these interventions aren’t reaching those who need them most.
i believe as a society, we need to make our young more resilient and resistant to gang culture that leads to crime and violence.
we need to give them tools and education to resist gang involvement. many say this cannot be achieved, but i fervently disagree; it can if we set our minds to the problem, which we must, we can solve it. there is both a moral and a financial imperative to do so.
a few years ago, i worked for an american nato commander who had a saying: “you can’t wring your hands and roll up your sleeves at the same time; you have to choose one or the other.”
well, i choose to roll up my sleeves, to try, and if we are to succeed, i need your support.
there are mechanisms in place to help the young, but they all kick in once they have fallen out of full-time education.
not only are the costs considerable, but for some, i worry it may be too little too late. the young person is left trying to negotiate life with few or no qualifications.
how easy will it be for them to find apprentices, to find work, to resist the seemingly easy wins they may be offered by criminal activity?
there is a massive emotional and psychological cost of criminalization, to the young people themselves and to their communities. but there is also a very real financial cost. the youth violence commission final report in july 2020 stated: “the costs associated with serious violence between young people are of an entirely different magnitude: £10 billion over the coming 10 years assuming rates of violence continue at their current levels.”
£10 billion pounds in 10 years!
what we are currently doing is not working. “the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results.”
i propose that we must be both brave and bold to make the change we and our young people need. we need to help these young people, and we need to help them now.
we have the tools, the know-how, the capability, and the money; what we need is to collectively demonstrate that we also have the gumption — that magic fusion of competence, confidence, resilience, and enthusiasm. the money really is already there; we simply need to reapportion it.
what am i talking about? i am talking about making youth service a compulsory part of the curriculum. i don’t mean the reintroduction of national service, but i am talking about the duke of edinburgh award scheme, the cadets, and the scouting and guiding movement.
all of these organisations lead to positive outcomes for our young people through their focus on physical activity, skill acquisition, and community service. these elements generate a sense of accomplishment and self-worth which in turn contribute to improved physical and emotional well-being, resilience, and a sense of belonging within society.
personally, i joined the scouts followed by the cadets, and i loved my time in both, but don’t take my word for it. recently, the northampton cadets commissioned a study on the benefits of joining a cadet force entitled “what is the social impact and return on investment resulting from expenditure in cadet forces in the uk?”.
it provides compelling evidence: “the implications of this finding are important for policymakers. given that higher levels of self-efficacy are correlated with being more resilient, doing better at school, and getting a job, it is very possible that being a cadet is, for a young person from an economically disadvantaged background, a key factor that enables them to achieve positive life outcomes.”
this is excellent stuff, and it needs to be scaled up. it can be!
i am proposing and committed to supporting initiatives to expand the strategic direction of these existing organisations—such as the duke of edinburgh’s award scheme—with the aim of reaching one million young people every year over the next five years. ideally, i would like even further roll-out of the program to embed the scheme within educational institutions and form part of the national curriculum.
today, i’m starting a conversation!
how do we collaborate with and contribute to raising awareness of, and the broader roll-out of these impactful programs? is the fact of them being voluntary to join actually a barrier to those who need it most? please join the conversation and let me know what you think!
do you support youth services being part of the national curriculum? then i urge you to tell your local police and crime commissioner and your mp!
do you support youth services being part of the national curriculum? then i urge you to tell your local police and crime commissioner and your mp!
comments: our rules
we want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. the ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
please report any comments that break our rules.read the rules here
###
kenya-haiti-reach-accord-enabling-police-deployment.htm: 
after facing opposition from a local court, kenya plans to send 1,000 police officers to haiti to spearhead a united nations-approved operation to combat gang violence. on friday, march 1, the two countries inked a security accord that nairobi thinks would appease the caribbean nation.
gang violence
as the violence escalated in 2022, haiti sought assistance but was unable to secure a nation ready to spearhead a relief effort. due to the country's history of human rights violations, other countries have been hesitant to step in and support henry's unelected regime.
last july, kenya made public its intention to initiate the effort for haiti, a country where gangs rule the capital and where violence claimed the lives of over 5,000 people in 2023. the deployment was supposed to take place by january, but the kenyan high court declared it unlawful since there was no "reciprocal arrangement" with the government that was hosting it.
the operation has been put on hold as a result of this, even though other nations have sent troops, and the united states and canada have promised hundreds of millions of dollars for it.
also read: haiti protests erupt as demonstrators demand prime minister ariel henry's resignation
kenya-haiti deal
according to kenyan president william ruto, an agreement was struck with haiti, who made the announcement on friday, as reported by reuters.
"i am pleased to inform that [haitian] prime minister ariel henry and i have witnessed the signing of this instrument. we have also discussed the next steps to enable the fast-tracking of the deployment," ruto stated.
along with kenya, the bahamas has pledged 150 people, while antigua, barbuda, and jamaica have expressed their willingness to provide assistance. just last week, benin extended an offer of 2,000 soldiers.
a day before the announcement, a gang leader said that a protest against the government resulted in violent fights between gangs, police, and vigilantes in port-au-prince, the capital of haiti.
also read: judge issues final report indicting haitian officials, including president's widow, in moïse assassination
###
himachal-nine-more-legislators-in-touch-with-us-says-disqualified-congress-mla.html: 
rajinder rana, one of the six disqualified congress mlas in himachal pradesh, has claimed that many other legislators are in touch with them and that sukhvinder singh sukh’s government is on the verge of being toppled.
rana also dismissed the chief minister’s claim that some rebel mlas want to return to the party. "no one wants to return. on the other hand, at least nine more mlas are in touch with us," he said.
expressing complete dissatisfaction with the current dispensation, rana claimed that they had been raising concerns with the high command for more than a year that "everything is not right in the party" in himachal.
“it is not congress' government in himachal pradesh; it is only the government of sukhvinder sukhu's friends. everyone is aware of the state's situation," he said.
rana and five other mlas were disqualified after they cross-voted for bjp candidate harsh mahajan in the recent rajya sabha election, leading to the stunning defeat of congress’s abhishek manu singhvi.
asked about it, rana said, "we took this decision to uphold the honour of himachal pradesh and its people."
rana hinted at the potential defections from within the party, claiming that at least nine mlas are in contact with him and the state government is on the verge of collapse.
"several other mlas want to join us (rebel mlas) and are in contact with us. the state government of himachal will be toppled soon," he said.
cm claims support from 80% of mlas
chief minister sukhu, meanwhile, affirmed that he still has the support of 80 per cent of mlas.
"eighty per cent of the congress is together, and the rest are upset with us over small matters. it's my responsibility to clear things, so i have had discussions with them (six disqualified congress mlas),” he said.
###
the-best-way-to-defend-the-right-to-protest-is-to-use-it: 
rishi sunak doubled down on the tory crackdown against muslims and the right to protest on friday night. the hastily-organised speech outside downing street is a sign of the panic ripping through the british establishment over the palestine solidarity movement.
it came on the night that george galloway won in the rochdale by-election, where voters punished sunak and keir starmer for supporting israel’s genocide.
sunak took aim at the palestine movement, claiming, “in recent weeks and months we have seen a shocking increase in extremist disruption and criminality. what started as protests on our streets have descended into intimidation, threats and planned acts of violence.
“now, our democracy itself is a target. council meetings and local events have been stormed. mps do not feel safe in their homes. longstanding parliamentary conventions have been upended because of safety concerns.” he said the rochdale by-election result was “beyond alarming”.
sunak said the tories would “redouble our support for the prevent programme” and “demand universities stop extremist activity”. he said it was “unacceptable to beam antisemitic slogans” onto parliament—a slur on the slogan, “from the river to the sea, palestine will be free.”
it’s not so much what sunak said that’s significant, but the fact that he said it at an unplanned broadcast.
the palestine movement has shaken up british politics. it forced out a deeply reactionary home secretary and caused a huge crisis for keir starmer’s leadership. now, sunak is desperate to repress it—and whip up islamophobia in the hope of shoring up right wing votes in the coming general election.
the best response is to keep mobilising for palestine and not let the state censor our legitimate slogans. and we have to fight back against islamophobia and the tories.
sunak’s speech comes after he and other tories had promised more repressive measures. home secretary james cleverly wants to increase the notice period protest organisers have to give police before large demonstrations. he wants to extend it from six days to a couple of weeks.
the tories want the police to crack down on the protests, with sunak calling on police chiefs to use the powers they have to “do whatever it takes”. he said protests outside of mps’ homes are intimidation and require an “immediate response” from police
these calls for police repression are linked to the tories ramping up islamophobia to undermine the palestine movement. sunak absurdly labelled the movement as “simply undemocratic” and claimed, “there is a growing consensus that mob rule is replacing democratic rule.”
sunak gave a lengthy speech on wednesday night where he sought to demonise palestine protesters and paint muslims as an enemy within. “we must also be far bolder and more assertive in defending our british values,” he said.
“we’ve got to end this passive tolerance of words and actions that go against what we stand for. it is as un-british as it is undemocratic.”
sunak is wheeling out the islamophobic trope that the protests—which have brought together the left and large numbers of muslims—are “un-british”.
tom southerden, amnesty international british law and human rights director, said, “talk of ‘mob rule’ wildly exaggerates the issue and risks delegitimising the rights of peaceful protest.” britain “has undergone a major crackdown on protests in recent years” as protests are “criminalised” and “the police being given sweeping powers to prevent protests taking place”.
but labour leader keir starmer disgracefully backed sunak. “the prime minister is right to advocate unity and to condemn the unacceptable and intimidatory behaviour that we have seen recently. it is an important task of leadership to defend our values and the common bonds that hold us together.”
he is defending the values of state repression and imperialism.
the home office announced a policy paper on wednesday sinisterly called, “defending democracy policing protocol”. the paper says that police should “direct protesters away” from mps’ homes.
it also says that protesters outside of parliament, town halls, party offices or fundraisers aren’t allowed to prevent use or access to the venue or cause distress to those in the venue. a number of tory mps want to escalate this further, demanding protests outside of parliament or council chambers be completely banned.
the labour party believes that the home office’s proposals are sensible, only disagreeing with the language.
the stop the war coalition, of the organisers of the palestine demonstrations, slammed the move. it committed to “campaigning energetically” against any attempts to ban protests outside parliament, council buildings or mps’ offices.
the coalition said the freedom of protest “is needed more than ever”. “our politicians are refusing to reflect the demand of the overwhelming majority of the population for an immediate ceasefire in gaza,” it said. “equating the right to protest with intimidation is completely spurious.”
the organisers of the palestine marches have put together a dossier of the examples of restrictive and violent policing.
this includes the attempt to ban the 11 november demonstration, the constant imposing of restriction orders on the marches and the metropolitan police’s violent arrests of protesters.
on top of this, cleverly told palestinian protesters to stop their regular protests because they have “made their point”. he told the times newspaper that protesters should recognise “they’ve made their point loudly and they’re not adding to it by repeating themselves”.
but the march organisers said they will continue to mobilise in support of a free palestine. as long as israel’s genocide in gaza continues—backed by the british state—ordinary people will take to the streets in rage.
we mustn’t let politicians’ attempts to demonise muslims and the palestine solidarity movement and attack the right to protest succeed. the best way to defend protest rights is to use them—against the tory mob in downing street.
occupations at leeds, goldsmiths, bristol and ucl
a new stage of the genocide
tories want to undermine palestine movement
students aren’t leaving until their demands are met
###
108175478.cms: 
itanagar: in a bid to boost the healthcare sector in arunachal pradesh
, the cabinet approved the creation of 39 additional faculty posts at tomo riba institute of health and medical sciences (trihms), the only medical college in the northeastern state, an official said. the decision was taken in view of upgradation of its intake capacity of mbbs students to 100, he said.
the cabinet also cleared the proposal for creation of the deputy drugs controller's post under the directorate of health services, the official said on saturday.
in other decisions, the cabinet approved the proposal for two highway circles at itanagar and jairampur.
it discussed about the importance of the 'gaon burah' (village head) institution and cleared the decks for creation of 36 'gaon burahs' in several districts, he said.
the cabinet accorded approval to rename various government institutions after noted personalities, who contributed towards socio-economic development, the official said.
it also approved notifying 23 local languages and dialects of constitutionally notified tribes of the state as third language, as a step to preserve and promote indigenous languages and dialects, he said.
###
prof-takyiwaa-manuh-denies-allegations-of-being-paid-to-oppose-anti-gay-bill: 
a heated exchange has erupted between notable figures regarding the motivations behind opposition to the controversial legislation following the passage of ghana’s anti-lgbtq+ bill.
a former director of the institute of african studies at the university of ghana, legon, emerita professor takyiwaa manuh, has found herself at the center of this discourse following allegations made by member of parliament for ningo-prampram, samuel nartey george.
sam george claimed that prof manuh, along with other prominent individuals, has been financially compensated by lgbtq+ groups to advocate against the anti-gay bill.
in response to these accusations, prof manuh firmly denied the allegations and accused the mp of resorting to insults due to the perceived inadequacy of the bill. she argued that the legislation is redundant given existing laws prohibiting “unnatural canal activities” and the abuse of children. moreover, she expressed concerns that the bill could perpetuate discrimination and unwarranted attacks against the lgbt+ community.
quoting the philosopher socrates, manuh asserted, “when the debate is lost, insult becomes the loser’s tool,” suggesting that george’s resort to personal attacks indicates a lack of substantive argument in favor of the bill.
challenging george to provide evidence for his claims, manuh emphasized her intention to uphold her reputation through legal recourse if necessary. she asserted her belief in the protection of the law, stating that the burden of proof lies with those making the allegations.
meanwhile, in his interview on adom fm, mp samuel nartey george reiterated his allegations against manuh and other individuals, accusing them of being funded by pro-lgbtq+ groups. he questioned the inconsistency in their opposition to the bill despite the existence of similar provisions in current laws.
the promotion of human sexual rights and family values bill, now awaiting presidential assent, seeks to criminalize and penalize lgbt activities and their advocacy in ghana. if signed into law, individuals engaging in such activities could face jail terms, while promoters and sponsors could also be subject to legal consequences.
as the bill awaits presidential action, the nation remains divided, with proponents citing the preservation of traditional family values, while opponents raise concerns about human rights and the potential for discrimination.
the outcome of this contentious legislative debate now hinges on the decision of president nana addo dankwa akufo-addo, whose approval or rejection of the bill will determine its fate.
tigpost.co
###
article_58a854d2-a843-536a-a952-85421485ae62.html: 
pickleball palooza to raise funds for st. jude clinic at niswonger rebekah mcnerney mar 1, 2024 mar 1, 2024 facebook twitter whatsapp linkedin sms email pickleball courts at johnson city"s memorial park community center. contributed leslie matherne facebook twitter whatsapp linkedin sms email print copy article link save facebook twitter whatsapp linkedin sms email print copy article link save quillen college of medicine is set to host quillen's pickleball palooza, a two-day tournament taking place march 23 and 24 at memorial park community center in johnson city.the event, organized by students, will benefit the st. jude affiliate clinic at niswonger children's hospital.the tournament will have opportunities for both singles and doubles at the beginner, intermediate and advanced level. players can enter multiple categories for an additional $5.bo cotton, a first-year medical student at quillen, said student organizers have been looking forward to the event.“we are all very passionate about st. jude children’s hospital, and we’ve been able to witness firsthand their need for donations,” cotton said. in addition to participants in the tournament, student organizers are also seeking donations or sponsorships from businesses or individuals.“we’re also offering free lessons to whoever may need it. we’re hoping to have food trucks and a little event area adjacent to the court,” cotton said.all tournament participants are guaranteed five games, best of 11. the cost to register is $50 for non-etsu students, and $30 for etsu students.“the goal is to raise as much money as possible for st. jude, so we’re going to do the best we can,” cotton said.to register for the quillen pickleball palooza, visit www.pickleballpaloozaetsu.com/registration. stay engaged react to this article and join our community of readers sharing their feedback. love 0 funny 0 wow 0 sad 0 angry 0 facebook twitter whatsapp linkedin sms email print copy article link save tags pickleball pickleball palooza st. jude affiliate clinic niswonger children's hospital quillen college of medicine bo cotton recommended for you latest videos featured local savings local events on air trending now duo arrested for possession of more than 42 pounds of meth coalfields expressway gets $7 million federal earmark for four-laning police: kingsport man used paring knife, grilling fork to kill mother roundup: tribe baseball beats patriots to remain unbeaten kingsport eyes $5 million budget loss next year
###
caxton-associates-lp-buys-new-shares-in-sm-energy-nysesm.html: 
caxton associates lp acquired a new stake in sm energy (nyse:sm – free report) during the 3rd quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the securities & exchange commission. the institutional investor acquired 15,741 shares of the energy company’s stock, valued at approximately $624,000.
a number of other large investors have also bought and sold shares of sm. pnc financial services group inc. boosted its position in sm energy by 41.0% during the first quarter. pnc financial services group inc. now owns 8,075 shares of the energy company’s stock worth $314,000 after purchasing an additional 2,348 shares during the period. natixis advisors l.p. boosted its holdings in sm energy by 28.4% in the 1st quarter. natixis advisors l.p. now owns 20,390 shares of the energy company’s stock worth $794,000 after buying an additional 4,513 shares during the period. metlife investment management llc grew its stake in sm energy by 55.1% in the 1st quarter. metlife investment management llc now owns 63,571 shares of the energy company’s stock valued at $2,476,000 after buying an additional 22,582 shares in the last quarter. great west life assurance co. can raised its holdings in sm energy by 2.5% during the 1st quarter. great west life assurance co. can now owns 110,627 shares of the energy company’s stock valued at $4,431,000 after acquiring an additional 2,680 shares during the period. finally, cibc world market inc. purchased a new stake in shares of sm energy during the first quarter worth $1,226,000. 91.26% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.
analysts set new price targets
a number of research firms recently issued reports on sm. keycorp decreased their price objective on sm energy from $56.00 to $51.00 and set an “overweight” rating on the stock in a research note on thursday, january 11th. wells fargo & company assumed coverage on shares of sm energy in a report on wednesday, november 15th. they issued an “equal weight” rating and a $40.00 price target on the stock. mizuho reduced their price objective on shares of sm energy from $50.00 to $44.00 and set a “buy” rating for the company in a research note on wednesday, january 3rd. susquehanna upped their target price on sm energy from $38.00 to $42.00 and gave the stock a “neutral” rating in a research note on monday. finally, royal bank of canada restated a “sector perform” rating and set a $45.00 price objective on shares of sm energy in a research report on monday, february 5th. seven equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and five have given a buy rating to the company’s stock. according to data from marketbeat, sm energy currently has a consensus rating of “hold” and a consensus price target of $41.90.
sm energy trading up 1.5 %
shares of sm opened at $43.77 on friday. sm energy has a twelve month low of $24.66 and a twelve month high of $43.92. the stock has a market capitalization of $5.07 billion, a p/e ratio of 6.37 and a beta of 4.18. the company has a quick ratio of 1.45, a current ratio of 1.45 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.44. the firm has a fifty day simple moving average of $38.21 and a two-hundred day simple moving average of $38.85.
sm energy (nyse:sm – get free report) last released its quarterly earnings results on wednesday, february 21st. the energy company reported $1.56 earnings per share for the quarter, beating the consensus estimate of $1.39 by $0.17. the company had revenue of $608.73 million for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $611.35 million. sm energy had a return on equity of 20.74% and a net margin of 34.45%. the firm’s revenue was down 9.3% on a year-over-year basis. during the same period in the previous year, the company posted $1.29 earnings per share. on average, research analysts anticipate that sm energy will post 5.82 eps for the current year.
sm energy increases dividend
the company also recently declared a semi-annual dividend, which was paid on monday, february 5th. investors of record on friday, january 19th were given a dividend of $0.18 per share. the ex-dividend date was thursday, january 18th. this represents a dividend yield of 1.5%. this is an increase from sm energy’s previous semi-annual dividend of $0.15. sm energy’s dividend payout ratio (dpr) is 10.48%.
sm energy company profile
sm energy company, an independent energy company, engages in the acquisition, exploration, development, and production of oil, gas, and natural gas liquids in the state of texas. it also has working interests in oil and gas producing wells in the midland basin and south texas. the company was formerly known as st.
featured articles
- five stocks we like better than sm energy
- special purpose acquisition company (spac) what you need to know
- 3 hot stocks bought by members of congress: follow the money
- should you add these warren buffett stocks to your portfolio?
- how to get in on the blockchain boom with blockchain stocks
- the 3 best fintech stocks to buy now
- tjx companies stock: take profits or buy the dip?
receive news & ratings for sm energy daily - enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for sm energy and related companies with marketbeat.com's free daily email newsletter.
###
former-rust-ad-armorer-handed-baldwin-weapon: 
former rust ad testifies: armorer handed baldwin gun
former rust assistant director dave halls, who took a plea agreement last march for negligent use of a deadly weapon in association with the oct. 21, 2021 on-set fatal shooting of cinematographer halyna hutchins, took the stand yesterday and said former armorer hannah gutierrez-reed, currently on trial for involuntary manslaughter and evidence tampering in the shooting, handed rust actor and producer alec baldwin the gun that killed hutchins. on wednesday, jurors viewed video footage of gutierrez-reed telling investigators she loaded the weapon for baldwin, who goes to trial july 10 for charges of involuntary manslaughter. baldwin initially told investigators gutierrez-reed had handed him the weapon, but later said halls had done so. gutierrez-reed typically performed her duties on set diligently up to the time of the shooting, halls said yesterday, noting she made an “impressive” safety presentation at the start of production. “the normal every day—every moment there was a firearm that was being handed to an actor, she would always bring the firearm,” halls said. gutierrez-reed’s lawyer, jason bowles, questioned hall’s testimony about safety on the set, citing a state environment department’s occupational health and safety bureau report that recommended “a willful-serious citation” and financial penalties for rust productions, llc. the state laid down a $136,793 civil penalty—the maximum fine allowed by state law.
new living wage takes effect today
an updated living wage for santa fe of $14.60 per hour—an increase from $14.03 last year—takes effect today. as explained in a news release, the living wage is calculated based on the 12-month total increase of 4.05% in the consumer price index (cpi) for the western region for urban wage earners and clerical workers. the city of santa fe’s living wage, adopted in 2007, requires all employers within city limits to pay workers at least the living wage. “this increase accurately reflects the increase in consumer price index, but we all know it is far from being an actual living wage,” mayor alan webber said in a statement. “if we want people who work in santa fe to be able to live in santa fe, we’re going to have to undertake a fair and thoughtful revision of the living wage to make it a real living wage.” the city’s living wage ordinance also says tips can count toward the living wage requirement for workers who customarily earn $100/month or more in tips or commission. according to the us department of labor, the federal minimum wage has been at $7.25 an hour since 2009. in his state of the city address last year, webber called for improving the city’s living wage to keep apace with rising costs. santa fe county’s living wage also increases to $14.60 today.
couples tie the knot at meow wolf
multiple couples took up meow wolf’s gambit to tie the knot in the multiverse yesterday, the albuquerque journal reports, giving themselves fewer wedding anniversaries to celebrate if wanted/needed and, perhaps, guaranteed return visits to the house of eternal return. new santa fe residents jonathan guzman and allison mrotek were the first, the journal reports. the couple moved here six months ago and felt meow wolf symbolized their 11-year relationship: “we’re very much a nontraditional couple,” mrotek told the paper. “we’re excited that we got to experience this.” jadyne rowden and gregory glenn, on the other hand, had just become engaged the night prior, and yesterday marked glenn’s first visit to meow wolf. the company invited couples earlier this month to tie the knot on leap day, saying ordained meow wolf characters would be on-site to officiate ceremonies. couples were required to buy a ticket for admission and arrange for acquiring and recording their own marriage licenses. “we’re thrilled to offer couples the chance to make their special day even more remarkable by becoming part of the fabric of our immersive universe,” meow wolf general manager susan garbett said in a statement. “leap year is all about the extraordinary, and what could be more extraordinary than starting a new chapter of your life in a place where imagination knows no bounds?” (don’t worry: you can get hitched at meow wolf on non-leap year days too).
state awards monthly training funds
the state economic development department yesterday announced the distribution of approximately $1.6 million in job training incentive program (jtip) funds to eight companies to train 94 employees. those companies include santa fe-based parting stone, which received $13,250 to train six employees. the award is just one of many for the local startup, which turns ashes into stones, providing customers a new form of solidified remains. in 2022, the company received $150,000 in state funds through the local economic development act. the jtip board, a news release says, makes monthly allocations to allow businesses to expand and hire locally, reimbursing the companies a percentage of their costs for hiring and training. “business owners throughout new mexico are continuing to utilize jtip as a tool for hiring and up-skilling their workforce,” acting cabinet secretary mark roper said in a statement. “this program becomes more vital in a tight labor market when we need to invest in and support our current workers so they can learn new skills, earn a higher wage, and remain in new mexico.” the largest award, approximately $840,000, went to albuquerque-based kairos power, a business “focused on the development of clean, innovative nuclear technology,” for 29 trainees.
listen up
the most recent episode of the state department of culture’s encounter culture podcast explores the experience of creating art in the midst of tremendous grief—particularly when personal grief intersects with collective pain, such as with the epidemic of missing and murdered indigenous people. bobby brower (iñupiaq) and tara trudell (santee sioux, rarámuri, mexican, spanish) talk with show host emily withnall about finding their ways into articulating responses to the mmip crisis through creating clothing and adornment, both “linked to a long history of protection, prayer and collaboration.”
we’ve got the look
vogue writer christian allaire (ojibwe) digs into bolo ties—the must-have accessory accompanying a resurgence in western wear, he says—with a particular eye to “how indigenous artists are reclaiming the bolo tie and making it even more special” by “adding unique details to their styles, such as colorful beadwork, precious turquoise and corals, and even stamped steel—all of which transform the bolo into a statement piece that can also signify cultural pride.” one case in point: new mexico artist krystalyn platero, who crafts “sterling-silver styles punctuated with pink crystals and turquoise.” speaking of indigenous fashion, afar magazine includes santa fe on its list of the 10 best places to travel in may, specifically for the may 2-5 inaugural indigenous fashion week. the four-day event will include a fashion symposium, fashion shows, parties, pop-ups and more. as afar notes, the event extends the indigenous fashion show that has become a highlight at santa fe indian market (in fact, read allaire’s coverage of fashion scene at last year’s market, both on and off the runway). as with the market’s indigenous fashion show, the new fashion week has been organized by curator, educator, art historian and fashionista amber-dawn bear robe (siksika nation), who spoke to sfr last summer about the new initiative, and mused: “maybe it can become an international event that people come to annually, just like indian market. this can be the place people come to experience the work, to work with indigenous designers and models, to collaborate. this can be the hub for that.”
shroom-curious
contrary to a recent story from high times, new mexico gov. michelle lujan grisham did not recently sign “psilocybin memorial legislation.” we double-checked with her office—memorials of this sort don’t require the governor’s signature, but this particular non-binding bill did pass and requests the state health department collaborate with the university of new mexico on a study to “evaluate the efficacy of psilocybin-based therapeutic treatments and the establishment of a program allowing the use of psilocybin mushrooms for therapeutic medical treatments.” the governor does support the memorial “in concept,” communications director michael coleman writes to sfr. “she generally supports innovative and responsible research and treatment to address depression, addiction, post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health challenges.” intrigued by the concept? perhaps, then, check out this weekend’s book events for shin yu pai and amy wong hope’s small doses of awareness: a microdosing companion, at 6 pm this evening at the ark (133 romero st.,) and at 11:30 am tomorrow, saturday, march 2 at best daze palace (128 w palace ave). sfr spoke with co-author and educator/social worker amy wong hope, who says she’s “not here to advocate for everybody using psychedelics, but they are a catalyst. and they can do things like increase our neuroplasticity. is that any different than anybody who takes an antidepressant? but they have to take care of what’s happening in their lives. when i do trauma therapy with clients, they’re so insightful, but what does it take to take that insight and really work it into the soil and really nurture it and water it? the psychedelics can be a catalyst or an aid, but each human being is still responsible for doing their work.”
in like a windy lion
the national weather service forecasts a sunny day, with a high temperature near 60 degrees and south wind 5 to 15 mph becoming west in the morning. high winds return over the weekend, with gusts as high as 30 mph on saturday and 40 mph on sunday, when we may also see “patchy blowing dust after noon.” temperatures will reach the low 60s throughout the weekend, with much of the state experiencing critical fire weather.
thanks for reading! some of the “65 provoking questions” the cut recently published for self-examination (or examination of others) reminded the word of early-stage facebook questionnaires, but she may mull a few of them this weekend, such as: “do you know the anatomy of a turtle? do you really?” and “what does your mind voice sound like?”
###
harris-promises-50-increase-goal-in-contracts-for-minority-businesses: 
power of the black dollar: funding entrepreneurs in tech
black entrepreneurs in sectors like tech have historically faced disproportionate funding challenges that further stifle innovation for everyone.learn more
the vice president said minority-owned businesses have "received a fraction of federal contracts, often because the relationships are not there."
vice president kamala harris, during remarks on a trip to north carolina, said the biden administration is on track to meet its goal of increasing federal contracts for minority-owned businesses by 50%.
it was harris' 10th visit to durham, north carolina since becoming vice president, she told a group that gathered as she met with representatives for the venture capital program nc invest.
"not everyone has access to opportunity, but when provided with opportunity the talent is there, the capacity is there, the drive is there, the ambition is there, and growth, and economic growth results. so, that is the math in terms of what we are talking about," harris told the group
vice president harris was there to announce that the biden administration would be injecting a new $92 million to be used mainly for early-stage startups in north carolina. nc invest focuses on growing small businesses.
"the president and i from the beginning of our administration made a pledge which we are on track to meet, to increase by 50% federal contracts going to minority-owned businesses," the vice president said.
black entrepreneurs in sectors like tech have historically faced disproportionate funding challenges that further stifle innovation for everyone.learn more
"it makes economic and financial sense for us to do this work, because yes, the bottom line, in economic terms, is that this produces an extraordinary return on investment. and that investment is as much as any other reason why we are doing this work together with our partners," harris said.
sevetri wilson taylor, the founder of resilia and the ceo of propserall, told scripps news, "black founders continuously need to be funded, and they need black fund managers to step up to the plate," when talking about startups in tech.
according to u.s. government data, in the last year, "americans across the country and in a wide range of industries filed a record 5 1/2 million new business applications, bringing the total number under this administration to a record-breaking 16 million."
census bureau data shows that black-owned businesses increased by around 13% between 2017 to 2020. between 2017 and 2021, their revenues jumped by 43%.
ongoing surges of migrants crossing the border have put strain on local police and fire departments who have continued to have funding issues.
judge juan manuel merchan agreed friday to at least a 30-day postponement. the trial had been slated for march 25.
a judge ruled fulton county district attorney fani willis or special prosecutor nathan wade had to leave the case for it to move forward.
united flight 433 landed safely at rogue valley international-medford airport in oregon. the airline said it would investigate how the panel came off.
the bill that could lead to the app's american demise heads to the senate, where lawmakers will debate whether to force bytedance to sell it.
one team member required surgery for a leg injury, while many others had ringing in their ears after the blast.
###
details.aspx?id=26236&title=UAE: 
abu dhabi national oil company (adnoc) said on thursday it has formally closed the acquisition of a 24.9% stake in austrian oil and gas group omv from abu dhabi sovereign wealth fund mubadala investment company, adnoc said in a statement.
following the completion of the transaction, adnoc owns 24.9% of omv, while österreichische beteiligungs ag (öbag), an austrian independent holding company, holds 31.5%, with the remaining share capital in free float. through this investment in omv, adnoc has increased its shareholdings in both borealis ag (borealis) and borouge plc (borouge).
###
MVBO3L5XP4U24JZ4R6ZXXXE24I: 
former president donald trump won the missouri caucuses saturday afternoon, inching his way closer to a formal grasp of the party’s nomination for president.
two other states were also holding republican elections saturday: idaho and michigan. but none of them were primaries. all were caucuses, which limit turnout by requiring participants to arrive at a specific time and usually to stay for a certain period to participate in a more formal process.
caucus specifics vary from state to state, but they usually involve hearing speeches and then casting a vote.
the associated press called missouri for trump at 12:40 p.m. et.
trump has won every single republican nominating contest since the year began. he will face his only serious remaining challenger, former south carolina gov. nikki haley, in the numerous elections being held march 5, which is known as super tuesday.
saturday's loss was another indication that haley faces grim prospects for winning the nomination.
caucuses limited participation
in both idaho and missouri, state lawmakers canceled the republican primary and replaced it with caucuses.
this gave a small percentage of republicans in the state control over who the party nominates.
the last time idaho held caucuses instead of a primary, in 2012, only about 45,000 people took part. that was about a fifth of all registered republicans in the state.
the timing of the caucuses was also an obstacle for many. idaho, which is split between the mountain and pacific time zones, held its caucuses at 12:30 or 1:30 in the afternoon. missouri held its caucuses at 10 a.m. ct.
michigan’s caucus convention was even more restricted
in michigan, which held its caucuses at 10 a.m. et, the average voter couldn’t even take part.
michigan did also hold a primary earlier in the week that allocated about a third of that state's delegates. trump won that contest easily.
but there was a scheduling conflict between the date set by michigan’s legislature, which is controlled by democrats, and rules for the republican nominating calendar set by the republican national committee.
so the michigan gop created a hybrid system in which a majority of the state’s 55 delegates are allocated based on a caucus convention.
the caucus convention, being held saturday, brought together around 2,000 party activists from around the state who were selected at the county level.
a state of confusion
but the confusion in michigan was made worse when activists last year accused state party chair kristina karamo of mismanaging the organization’s finances.
trump backed a different state party chair, former rep. pete hoekstra, as did the republican national committee.
karamo, however, refused to back down and organized a caucus convention of her own, separate from the caucus convention held by hoekstra and his organization.
only one day before the two dueling meetings were set to take place, karamo and her former staff bowed to the pressure from the national party and canceled their competing caucus convention.
heading into tuesday
though the votes might be small, the victory in missouri, plus two more potential wins in michigan and idaho, give trump a little more momentum heading into super tuesday. trump’s campaign hopes to wrap up the primary race in the coming weeks — or as soon as tuesday night, should haley drop out.
as for staying in the race, haley has said that march 5 is “as far as i’ve thought in terms of going forward.”
###
Malaysia-Healthcare-Travel-Council-Denies-Allegations-of-Lack-Of-Direction-in-the-Company.html: 
kuala lumpur, malaysia, march 02, 2024 (globe newswire) -- malaysia healthcare travel council (mhtc) would like to refer to the news published by a local news organisation titled - “malaysia healthcare travel council in ‘serious’ condition with massive resignations, ‘lack of direction’”.
mhtc has made significant strides in advancing agency-wide operational excellence which has been crucial to strengthening its foundation and positioning the agency for its next growth phase. mhtc is evolving to meet the needs of healthcare travellers globally. we have already set out the strategies for malaysia year of medical tourism 2026 programme and are already working with the various government agencies and stakeholders to ensure the success of the programme. as we transition, we are committed to identifying additional opportunities to drive improved returns for our partners and stakeholders, and making healthcare travel a key export for the country.
to learn more about malaysia healthcare and its services, please visit https://malaysiahealthcare.org or visit our social feeds at: www.facebook.com/mhtcmalaysia or at linkedin (malaysia healthcare travel council).
for media enquiries:
|chandrika bhaskaran
senior manager
pr & communications
malaysia healthcare travel council
chandrika.b@mhtc.org.my
|falliq effendy
manager
pr & communications
malaysia healthcare travel council
m.falliq@mhtc.org.my
about the malaysia healthcare travel council
the malaysia healthcare travel council (mhtc) is a government agency under the ministry of health malaysia that has been entrusted with the responsibility of curating the country’s healthcare travel scene, making it a key export service industry. founded in 2009, mhtc works to streamline industry players and service providers in facilitating and growing malaysia’s healthcare travel industry under the brand “malaysia healthcare” with the intended goal of making malaysia the leading global healthcare destination. mhtc works closely with over 90 private healthcare facilities in malaysia, who are registered members of mhtc.
###
plight-of-nigerian-professors-in-cameroon: 
it has been over six years since some professors of nigerian universities were kidnapped at nera hotel in abuja.
they were meeting to discuss the welfare of cameroonian refugees who had fled for their lives into nigerian territory, when they were kidnapped at gun point by 20- armed men on 5th january 2018. the academics were handcuffed and held in an underground detention facility of the department of state services (dss) for 20 days.
later, they were repatriated to cameroon, with the assistance of the administration of the then-president muhammadu buhari, despite the fact that they were legally resident in nigeria as refugees and registered asylum seekers.
at cameroon, they were brought before a military tribunal, tried in french, even though they were english speaking, with no provision of a translator and sentenced to life imprisonment at the kondengui maximum security detention facility with a fine of us$525 million.
this action has been widely criticised globally.
a federal high court in abuja on march 1st, 2019, and november 28th, 2019 recognized the violations of their rights.
the judge ruled that the state must pay n5 million (us$13,800) to each detainee for violating their fundamental rights, including the right to life, dignity, fair hearing, health, freedom of movement, and association.
additionally, n200,000 in damages was awarded for deportation. the court issued a perpetual injunction against further violations and ordered the deportees’ return to nigeria promptly.
the un human rights special procedures working group based in geneva, switzerland earlier called on the government of cameroon to release them. because of the violation of their human rights citing that “the manner in which the complainants were arrested, detained in nigeria, transferred to cameroon, detained, tried, and sentenced to life imprisonment violated various international laws to which both cameroon and nigeria are signatories to.”
the group also asked that cameroon and nigeria remedy the situation and “accord them an enforceable right to compensation and other reparations, in accordance with international law.”
heather nauert, the us department of state spokesperson, emphasized that the actions of nigeria and cameroon violated the detainees’ rights by forcibly repatriating them. she urged both governments to adhere to their international obligations and refrain from such actions. many rights groups have criticized the imprisonment, calling for their release but years down the line they are still in detention.
ogaba oga, a legal practitioner, explains that refugees in nigeria are afforded various legal rights through both national and international instruments. the national refugee commission act of 1989 establishes fundamental protections, including non-refoulement, access to basic needs like food and shelter, the right to work and education within national regulations, and freedom of movement within nigeria.
internationally, nigeria is bound by the refugee convention of 1951, which reinforces these rights. besides, refugees are protected under the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, and the universal declaration of human rights.
comfort yakubu, abuja
###
meta-rebuffs-google-virtual-reality-tie-up-proposal-report-9190812: 
meta platforms decided against a partnership with alphabet to use google’s android xr platform for its virtual and mixed-reality quest headsets, the information reported on friday.
google had suggested that meta partnered with its new software platform that is being developed for virtual reality, augmented reality and mixed-reality headsets, the report said, citing a source involved in the talks.
but such a partnership could thwart meta ceo mark zuckerberg’s plan to “own the next computational platform for ar, vr and mixed reality,” according to the report.
meta is already talking to hardware companies, including south korea’s lg electronics, about building new vr devices using quest’s software, the report said, quoting unnamed meta employees.
meta, alphabet and lg electronics did not immediately respond to reuters request for comment.
meta’s quest devices currently run on an open-source version of google’s android operating system, the report said.
apple released its mixed reality headset vision pro last month.
marcus fernaldi gideon's retirement has highlighted his and kevin sanjaya sukamuljo's dominance in badminton's bwf world tour, despite never winning an olympics or world championships medal. the current men's doubles scene is fiercely competitive, with top teams facing early defeats at the all england open 2024. satwik-chirag's consistent performance stands out among the competition.
###
Grieving-family-friends-HECKLE-New-York-killer.html: 
grieving family and friends heckle new york killer who shot dead 20-year-old woman when she turned up his driveway by accident as he's led away to prison to serve 25-year sentence
- kevin monahan, 66, was sentenced to 25 years for shooting kaylin gillis when the suv she was in accidentally drove up his driveway in upstate ny
- friends and family members of gillis, 20, rejoiced as monahan was escorted out of court in handcuffs
- they shouted 'bye, kevin,' 'you coward' and 'justice served'
friends and family members of 20-year-old kaylin gillis heckled her killer as he was escorted out of court to serve a 25-year-prison sentence.
kevin monahan, 66, was found guilty on friday of second-degree murder, reckless endangerment and tampering with physical evidence after a two-week trial in january.
monahan, who hails from hebron, fatally shot gillis after the suv she was riding in mistakenly pulled into his rural driveway in upstate new york last april.
the decision came after a series of heartbreaking emotional impact statements from gillis' father as well as her boyfriend blake walsh, who was driving, and friend alexandra whiting, who was another passenger on the fateful night.
the courtroom, which was full of people wearing shirts and sweaters memorializing gillis, rejoiced as monahan was escorted out of the courtroom after being sentenced to 25 years behind bars.
friends and family members of 20-year-old kaylin gillis heckled her killer kevin monahan (pictured) as he was escorted out of court to serve a 25-year-prison sentence
monahan is standing trial over the april 2023 fatal shooting of kaylin gillis, 20, who was shot in the neck after a car she was riding in accidentally drove down the gunman's driveway
gillis (right) had been riding in the car with her boyfriend and two friends when they got lost down monahan's winding dirt road. he says he will 'never be able to forgive' monahan for killing her
gillis' family and friends shouted 'bye kevin', 'you coward' and 'justice served' as he was marched out in handcuffs.
the defense asked for leniency. monahan declined an opportunity to speak.
'i think it's important for people to know that it's not ok to shoot people and have them killed for turning down your driveway,' judge adam michelini said.
apart from the wider deterrent effect, michelini said it's important that monahan remain behind bars rather than be free to harm more people.
on the night of gillis' death, the group of friends had realized their error and had turned around when monahan fired a second shot, striking gillis in the neck as she sat in the front passenger seat of an suv driven by her boyfriend.
monahan maintained the fatal shot was an accident and that the shotgun was defective. he also said he believed the house about 40 miles (65 kilometers) north of albany was 'under siege' by intruders, and said he came out to fire a warning shot to try to scare the group away while his wife hid inside.
prosecutors argued that monahan was motivated by an irrational rage toward trespassers.
a jury deliberated for less then two hours before returning guilty verdicts in january against monahan for murder, reckless endangerment and tampering with physical evidence.
the father of gilis previously told of his grief at losing his daughter so suddenly, and said he hopes monahan 'dies in jail'
a nys court police officer to holds kevin monahan's shotgun during summations in monahan's murder trial
kaylin gillis' father andrew addressed the media after monahan's first court appearance in april, where he said he hoped the shooter 'dies in jail'
according to zillow, kevin monahan's home was built in 2004 and is estimated to cost $310,000, it is only accessible through an unpaved road
gillis' father, andrew gillis, has described his daughter as someone who loved animals and had dreams of becoming a marine biologist or a veterinarian.
'every day we wake up to the harsh reality that that she´s no longer here. we will never see her beautiful face, hear her laughter,' gillis said in court friday before monahan's sentence was announced.
her boyfriend, blake walsh, was behind the wheel of the suv that night. 'i will never be able to forgive you,' he told monahan, who looked on with a stony face.
'you took the life of someone who never was a threat to you, not for a second,' walsh said.
'kaylin was a sweet and loving soul. everything you wished you could be,' he continued. 'if it were my decision, you'd be under the jail.'
gillis's friend whiting told the killer, 'once in a while, i feel slightly bad for you, wondering what made you turn out this way and why, and wondering if you truly feel guilty about what you did.'
'you made a decision that altered all of our lives forever, all because you spent three minutes in fear,' she said.
the comments below have not been moderated.
the views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of mailonline.
we are no longer accepting comments on this article.
###
weld-recruiting-military-veterans-families-to-serve-as-poll-workers: 
weld recruiting military veterans, families to serve as poll workers
wheeling – west virginia senate majority whip ryan weld believes military veterans could make ideal poll workers at election time, and he wants to recruit them to provide that public service.
weld, r-brooke, is himself an air force veteran, and he knows what training these citizens have.
“veterans make good poll workers,” he said. “think about the skills we learn in the military – organization, teamwork.
“when you are in a voting precinct, you have to be organized and you have to be able to work with others. you have to be able to get everything in order.”
in the military, recruits are taught all about following procedures, weld continued.
“and that is what elections are about – from the time you open until the time you close.”
weld announced on friday a partnership with nonprofit vet the vote to encourage mountain state vets and their families to volunteer as poll workers in this year’s elections.
“without a doubt, veterans are the most trusted demographic in the nation,” he said. “and we can think of no better group to step up and help solve our election volunteer shortage.
“we are asking our veterans to serve once again and help ensure that all west virginians who are able to vote in this year’s election can,” he added.
west virginia will need more than 8,400 volunteer poll workers to help in both this year’s primary and general elections. by appealing to the state’s veteran community, this initiative hopes to ease the burden on west virginia’s county clerks as they seek to find a sufficient number of poll workers this year.
dan vallone, a veteran of the u.s army and director of vet the vote, said that the state’s veterans and military families have always stepped forward to serve their communities.
“as trusted members of the community with a deep commitment to service, veterans and military families can play a unique role in addressing the urgent need for poll workers here in west virginia and across the country,” vallone said. “and by encouraging them to answer this call, we hope to forge a new tradition of patriotic civic engagement among veterans and military families.”
the west virginia county clerks association has stepped up to assist with the vet the vote effort to ensure participation in each of the state’s 55 counties. weld, who is also chairman of the senate military committee, is the lead sponsor of senate resolution 61, encouraging west virginia military veterans to volunteer as election workers in 2024 statewide elections. the resolution highlights the critical skills veterans bring to the administration of elections and that their participation as poll workers will help continue our citizens’ strong sense of confidence in the electoral process.
he also believes veterans should want to serve as poll workers, as they have already established a pattern of self-service.
“they should want to make sure that one of our fundamental rights is available, and always available,” weld said. “in states where there are not enough poll workers they are consolidating precincts and decreasing the number of check-in tables. this leads to longer lines and impedes a person’s fundamental right to vote.
“you (as a veteran) have already made the decision to serve once before. please do so again by volunteering again as a poll worker. you will be ensuring the rights you worked to ensure while you were in uniform are still able to be enjoyed today – such as the fundamental right to vote.”
weld suggests that if anyone wants to serve as poll worker for the upcoming election they stop by their county’s elections office – which is in most local counties the county clerk’s office.
in ohio county, those wanting to be poll workers should contact the ohio county commission office at 304-234-3628.
poll worker training classes begin april 15 in time for the may 14 primary election.
###
not-so-fast-goa-says-sen-john-cornyns-gun-control-support-makes-him-unfit-gop-leadership: 
sen. john cornyn (r-tx) announced a bid for senate leader, and gun owners of america quickly took the offensive against him, noting his support for various gun controls throughout his years in office.
in the summer of 2022, breitbart news reported that president biden specifically named sen. cornyn as someone he wanted to thank for the passage of the bipartisan safer communities act, a gun control package that cornyn worked with democrats to fashion.
on friday, june 17, 2022, cornyn was booed at a republican party convention for working with the democrats to place more gun control on the backs of law-abiding citizens:
well, sounds like texas republicans aren’t a fan of cornyn’s anti-2a bill
entire convention center just erupted into boos when cornyn took the stage pic.twitter.com/yuxhhijsoe
— zach henry (@zhenryaz) june 17, 2022
goa director of federal affairs aidan johnston responded to cornyn’s current aspirations to leadership via an x post which said in part, “americans deserve someone who will refuse to compromise with their god-given second amendment rights. and unfortunately, john cornyn is always, always, always cutting deals with our second amendment.”
“the senate deserves a conservative pro-gun leader, and john cornyn is not that person. every time a gun issue comes up, he’s right there with a compromise. and that’s not leadership. that’s just capitulation to gun control. americans deserve someone who will refuse to compromise… https://t.co/olbn0b8ybm
— gun owners of america (@gunowners) february 29, 2024
awr hawkins is an award-winning second amendment columnist for breitbart news and the writer/curator of down range with awr hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things second amendment, also for breitbart news. he is the political analyst for armed american radio and a pro-staffer for pulsar night vision. he was a visiting fellow at the russell kirk center for cultural renewal in 2010 and holds a ph.d. in military history, with a focus on the vietnam war (brown water navy), u.s. navy since inception, the civil war, and early modern europe. follow him on instagram: @awr_hawkins. you can sign up to get down range at breitbart.com/downrange. reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com.
###
article_a483d286-d725-11ee-b5d1-6b269a15db1a.html: 
sundance (wne) — two wildfires that ignited on sunday burned a combined estimated total of 1600 acres and required a sizable response from firefighters around the county and beyond.
in new haven, a fire located on a combination of private and state land is estimated to have reached 400 acres. according to fire warden charlie harrison, crews that responded to the fire included oshoto, carlile, sundance, pine haven and hulett.
the lower portion of the fire was located in grass, but around 70% of the fire was in higher, timbered territory. according to harrison, the fire was 60% contained by monday morning.
“the biggest threat is the wind,” said harrison at that time, explaining the need for the day shift of six engines, one water tender, a dozer and four overhead units from state forestry that continued to monitor the area and work on the scene.
a wind-driven grass fire on private land near moorcroft, known as the hwy 16 incident, is meanwhile estimated to have burned approximately 1200 acres.
units from pine haven, moorcroft and sundance responded. weston county fire protection district also assisted, sending 26 firefighters along with nine engines and four tenders.
this caused the need for traffic to be diverted into one lane, but never led to a closure of the interstate.
by monday morning, the hwy 16 incident was estimated at 90% contained but was still being monitored by one unit.
the cause for both fires is currently under investigation.
the rapid city national weather service forecast office issued a red flag warning on monday, with critical fire weather conditions developing across northeast wyoming and southern south dakota.
the service noted in the warning that it is “very unusual for widespread critical fire weather conditions to develop in february” and that the initial wind shift could be “highly problematic” for ongoing fires.
###
article_7e87af08-d8a6-11ee-ae90-2b9463577531.html: 
janesville, wis. -- a person is dead following an armed standoff with police on janesville's north side friday night. the wisconsin department of justice is investigating the incident.
the doj said the janesville police department responded to a 911 call regarding an armed person in the 1200 block of n. parker street in the city of janesville. when they arrived, officers made contact with the person.
the person reportedly refused to exit the residence and two other people were unable to safely exit the residence. an officer discharged their weapon, striking the armed person. the person died at the scene due to their injuries. a firearm was located at the scene.
the doj says no law enforcement personnel were injured however, the involved officer has been placed on administrative leave, per department policy.
the involved officer was wearing a body camera during the incident.
the doj division of criminal investigation is leading this investigation and are assisted by the wisconsin state patrol, a dci crime response specialist, and members of the dci digital evidence unit. all involved law enforcement are fully cooperating with dci during this investigation.
dci is continuing to review evidence and determine the facts of this incident and will turn over investigative reports to the rock county district attorney when the investigation concludes.
copyright 2024 by channel 3000. all rights reserved. this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
###
for-the-sake-of-one-bingo-night-2024: 
‘for the sake of one’ 3rd annual bingo night fundraiser is 3/21
for the 3rd annual bingo night fundraiser, for the sake of one will be hosting an event on thursday, march 21 at the canvas special events center in texarkana, tx at 6:30 pm.
here are the event details:
- location: the canvas special events center, 2101 texas blvd, texarkana, tx
- time: 6:30 pm
- features: underground pizza co for food purchases and bubble bar etx for a cash bar
open to the public, inviting everyone in the community
the newly renovated canvas special events center will provide an excellent backdrop for the event.
this fundraiser aims to support local families in foster care. you can buy individual tickets for $25 or sponsor the event by purchasing a table for 8, along with marketing benefits. to get tickets or sponsorships, visit the website.
local businesses are contributing bingo prizes, if you wish to donate, reach out to for the sake of one at 903-329-0566 or email alyssa@forthesakeofone.com.
for the sake of one, is a local non-profit dedicated to creating a community where every child has a stable home and every family thrives. their mission involves providing support to local children and families, connecting stakeholders in the child welfare community, and offering tbri training.
if you are interested in supporting the foster care community, feel free to contact them at 903-329-0566 or angela@forthesakeofone.com, or visit forthesakeofone.com.
10 totally random facts about mcdonald's chicken mcnuggets
gallery credit: rob carroll
35 country songs that tell a great story
gallery credit: carena liiptak
###
alro-insists-its-not-parks-land: 
the agricultural land reform office (alro) on saturday insisted that all disputed land plots near khao yai were lawfully designated as agricultural land and did not overlap with national park land as claimed by the department of national park, wildlife and plant conservation (dnp).
alro's secretary-general vinaroj sapsongsuk said alro and the dnp had previously agreed to work together to examine the land ownership disagreements near the park.
the land in question, located in ban hew pla kang in tambon mu si of pak chong district of nakhon ratchasima, belongs to the alro, mr vinaroj said.
he cited findings from a recent survey conducted by the royal thai survey department (rtsd) which said the land is not a part of the park.
he said about 33,896 rai of land was handed over to the ministry of agriculture and cooperatives in 1962 to be implemented in a land reform scheme.
then, on dec 26, 1984, a boundary marking in khao yai was conducted, he said, noting the action was approved by the alro and the royal forest department, which at the time oversaw national parks in the country.
at the time, approximately 86.25% of such land was occupied for agricultural purposes, he said.
alro therefore began allocating rights to use the land to farmers following the enactment of the 1975 agricultural land reform act, mr vinaroj said.
if the government wants to demarcate the land and turn it into a buffer zone, a formal amendment of the law is needed, he said, adding compensation for farmers currently occupying the land should also be granted.
an alro committee would continue to investigate its provincial officers over their alleged misconduct in the issuing of sor por kor documents (title deeds) on forest land, he said, adding these alro officials have been transferred to make way for the probe, and would face disciplinary action as well as criminal and civil charges if found guilty.
###
second-galaxy-s24-software-update-is-out: 
the galaxy s24 is picking up the march 2024 security update
the latest update is just a bug fix and stability update to keep your phone secure and running smoothly.
what you need to know
- samsung just released a fresh software update for the galaxy s24 series, featuring the march 2024 security patch.
- unlike the previous update, which added a "vividness" slider, this one prioritizes security and stability improvements.
- galaxy s24 users in canada and the united states are already reporting the update.
samsung just dropped a fresh software update for the galaxy s24 series, packing the march 2024 security patch.
the update kicked off in late february, right after a firmware drop that improved the camera and tweaked display colors. but it was initially limited to users in south korea, as per sammobile.
the newest patch brings a firmware version ending with axbg. unlike the one from two weeks ago that introduced a "vividness" slider in advanced display settings, this time it's all about beefing up security and stability.
samsung's official release notes for the update do not spotlight any changes. however, with the hefty 428mb firmware size, chances are it's packing just the march 2024 security patch and a sprinkle of minor bug fixes.
reports are rolling in from galaxy s24 users in canada and the united states, saying they're snagging the update on their phones. it's also anticipated to hit more countries in the next few days.
if you're wondering if your shiny new device scored the patch, dive into your settings app. once you're in, go to the software update section. if the update is ready for you, there should be a nifty button saying "download and install."
samsung is keeping its reputation as one of the top dogs in the smartphone world by sticking to the routine of dropping monthly security updates. sure, the february 2024 update took a fashionably late entrance for the flagship galaxy devices, but the company bounced back in style. the march update is out and about, beating google to the punch.
while the galaxy s24 is first to pick up the march patch, naturally, older models like the galaxy s23, z fold 5, and z flip 5 are getting their turn later in the month.
be an expert in 5 minutes
get the latest news from android central, your trusted companion in the world of android
jay bonggolto always keeps a nose for news. he has been writing about consumer tech and apps for as long as he can remember, and he has used a variety of android phones since falling in love with jelly bean. send him a direct message via twitter or linkedin.
###
wildfires-devastate-areas-of-nebraska-texas-kansas-and-oklahoma: 
wildfires devastate areas of nebraska, texas, kansas and oklahoma
dry, hot conditions have sparked wildfires from nebraska to the texas panhandle.
the smokehouse creek and other fires in the texas panhandle have had a devastating impact on area residents, destroying homes, vehicles, livestock and, so far, one human lives.
the fire is being billed as the largest in the state at 1,640 square miles, just behind the 2006 east amarillo complex fire that burned 1,400 square miles and killed 13 people.
texas agriculture commissioner sid miller estimated that thousands of cattle have been killed or will have to be euthanized because of the fire.
unfortunately, as i write this there is still danger from smokehouse creek fire and several others blazing in the texas panhandle and parts of oklahoma.
my heart goes out to these people and all of us here at the fence post are praying that you all recover.
i have never gone through a fire in my life, and i hope i never have to experience such devastation. but it never ceases to amaze me the size and scope of the generosity of people that go out of their way to help others in their time of need.
already i’ve seen emails and messages from all over the united states organizing fundraisers and asking what they can do to help. donations have already started to roll in and lists have been distributed about current needs.
in response to the fires in central nebraska an informational meeting is being held on march 12 at 6:30 p.m. at the west central research, extension and education center in north platte to address documenting losses.
these fires remind us that there is really no wildfire season. weather conditions at any time of the year can create conditions conducive to fire and we need to always be on alert.
let’s hope these areas get some much-needed moisture to keep wildfires at bay.
###
modern-means-to-meet-declining-agricultural-production: 
yk poudel
agricultural production in bhutan has been declining over the years, with the nation producing 70,168 metric tonnes of primary cereals in 2022. to address this concerning trend, the ministry of agriculture and livestock (moal) is implementing strategic measures focusing on farm mechanissation, irrigation, and the cultivation of high-value crops.
during the first meet-the-press on february 29, agriculture minister younten phuntsho identified several contributing factors to this decline. these include challenges related to landholding, limited access to finance for agricultural activities, climate-induced adversities, water supply for irrigation, and post-harvest management issues.
“there’s a shift towards economically viable, less labour-intensive crops over paddy cultivation in wetlands,” he said.
in the upcoming 13th five-year plan, the ministry, minister said, would prioritise the enhancement of high-value crop production and the strengthening of farm co-operatives.
he further highlighted the importance of the gyalsung national service in promoting food security through advancements in agriculture technology, protected agriculture, and drip irrigation.
efforts will be made, he said, to improve farm mechanisation, enhance irrigation water supply, and facilitate easier access to finance for farmers.
the ministry has plans to address trade challenges related to pricing, accessibility, and transportation based on reports from the department of agriculture.
the plans also include the introduction of new crop varieties.
the 13th five-year plan emphasises the commercial production of high-value organic agricultural commodities such as asparagus, broccoli, quinoa, strawberry, cauliflower, buckwheat, and adzuki beans.
additionally, the plan proposes the production of new high-value livestock commodities including rainbow trout, sturgeon caviar, yak cheese and fiber, putka and comba honey, yagyu cheese, and royal jelly.
investments in climate-smart and disaster-resilient irrigation facilities for farmers will receive special focus.
the integrated agriculture and livestock census of bhutan 2022 reveals a decline in the production of primary cereals compared to 2021, with paddy, maize, wheat, buckwheat, barley, and millet being the primary cereals cultivated.
the census data also indicates that a significant portion of farmers are above the age of 65, with females being overrepresented in age categories up to 54 years. this suggests a need for initiatives to attract and support younger farmers, particularly females, to sustain agricultural activities.
despite witnessing growth in gross domestic product (gdp) and gross national income (gni) in 2022, there was a contraction in the contribution of the primary sector. crop production registered a negative growth rate in 2022, highlighting the urgency of implementing strategies to revitalise the agricultural sector for sustainable economic growth.
###
medical-students-vow-to-protest: 
oumie faal, information and communication minister of the medical students association of the gambia, stated that in response to the lack of resolution from the university authorities, “the medical students have threatened to protest” against the medical school and the surgery department at edward francis small teaching hospital if their concerns were not addressed by friday.
“if we don’t receive any positive response from the authorities involved, we will protest against them on friday. we are tired of this situation,” said the students, who feel that their education and future careers are at stake and are demanding a concrete plan of action from the university.
the students claim that despite numerous meetings and discussions with the vice chancellor, the acting provost, and the surgery department about the issue, no progress has been made.
they believe “there is a conflict of interest” between the university and the surgery department, with the students suffering as a result.
the lack of tangible action and proper communication has left the students feeling undervalued and unsupported in their pursuit of education and training, perceived the students, who have given the university authorities a two-day deadline to come up with a definitive solution.
faal said the students are demanding accountability, swift action, and a clear resolution to the delay, emphasising that their academic and professional growth cannot afford any further setbacks.
they acknowledge that they have exhausted diplomatic approaches and are now compelled to take a more radical approach to bring about change.
they are calling for the intervention of the chancellor and are using the slogan, “we are tired of being neglected. we are tired of the continuous delays in the medical school.”
however, the frustrations of the medical students have highlight the urgent need for the university authorities to address their concerns and find a satisfactory resolution to the delay in the medical school curriculum.
###
502-925d3235-6594-4484-8bf3-e9479c399e86: 
groves, texas — friday evening, a puppy named bones was brought into mid-county small animal shelter by his owner after being hit by a car who asked if he could be euthanized. today, mid-count paws of hope is asking for the community to help in saving bones' life.
when bones was brought in he was in bad shape, but manager shandra rivera didn't want to see a life snuffed out so soon if it could be helped, so she asked if the owner would forfeit ownership to the mcph and made a call to veterinarian brady hanson.
dr. hanson, who is no stranger to helping "lost causes" told her to bring bones to him at nvc groves without hesitation.
according to dr. hanson, the 6-month-old puppy had multiple broken bones and his pelvis had been separated from his spine from what looked like multiple vehicular strikes.
even with his grievous injuries, the happy puppy simply wagged his tail and licked his newfound rescuers, never letting out so much as a whimper on his ride to the clinic.
"he couldn't even walk, yet he was nothing but a sweetheart the whole time he was with us." rivera said.
dr. hanson says he tries to make a point of taking care of injured strays and homeless peoples pets free of charge. however, these surgeries are expensive and can put a financial strain on the clinic.
that is why mcph are asking people to donate what they can to help foot the bill for bones lifesaving surgeries.
rivera says people can donate as much or as little as they can afford but it all adds up.
to donate you can call it in directly to nvc nederland who's number is 409-254-6682 or stop by the office at 3606 hwy 365 nederland, texas.
bones is currently recovering from his surgeries and resting comfortably, hanson predicts that he will recover fully in about three weeks.
after his recovery, the resilient pup will be looking to be adopted into a new family.
###
norfolk-southern-train-derails-onto-banks-of-pennsylvania-river: 
officials said at least three norfolk southern trains were involved in collisions that caused them to derail in a dramatic scene along the banks of a major pennsylvania river on saturday. train cars seen in images released by first responders appeared to be carrying freight and other materials.
after officials and emergency crews assessed the scene, it was determined that no hazardous substances had spilled into the river, according to reports — and no evacuations were ordered.
further information on the exact damage caused was not immediately released, but authorities said there were no injuries.
the nancy run fire company released images on social media confirming a rescue engine had been sent to the scene at riverside dr. in lower saucon, and that multiple cars were derailed.
the area of the crash is situated north of philadelphia, just under two hours by car.
at least some of the train cars had toppled over into the moving water of the lehigh river. images appeared to show at least two locomotive cars partially in the river.
the lower saucon fire rescue department worked with the northhampton county emergency management service to help local and state agencies recover sections of the train and assess damage.
authorities didn't immediately release an exact cause for the derailment but said at least three trains were involved in what what was described as a collision and derailment, the associated press reported.
norfolk southern told scripps news the company appreciates "the quick, professional response by local emergency agencies," and said, "crews and contractors are on-scene and assessing with first responders," to create a clean up plan.
the derailment was reported at about 7:45 a.m. before first responders arrived to find multiple trains derailed. the national transportation safety board reported an eastbound norfolk southern train collided with another norfolk southern train that had stopped on the same track. wreckage that fell onto another track from that collision was hit by a westbound norfolk southern train, the ntsb confirmed to the associated press.
a resident of the area, gary weiland, told the the morning call he heard a large crash, then a moment of silence and then another crash.
"as the second one was happening, i went upstairs and looked out the window and saw a splash. i said to my wife, 'i think a train derailed,'" he said.
the incident comes just one year after norfolk southern's disastrous train derailment in east palestine, ohio, where hazardous material caught fire in that crash. the resulting plume of black smoke it caused and reports of negative health effects on residents became national news as people in the area were displaced.
see more: derailed: east palestine, 1 year later
trending stories at scrippsnews.com
###
mil-osi-translation-support-at-all-stages-of-growth-for-prince-edward-island-food-businesses: 
mil osi translation. canadian french to english –
source: government of canada – in french
federal and provincial governments to support businesses through food island partnership programs
march 1, 2024 · charlottetown, prince edward island · atlantic canada opportunities agency (acoa)
prince edward island’s traditional food sector has long been a driving force in the province’s economy. today, innovative food companies are continuing this momentum, coming up with fresh ideas and sowing the seeds for growth.
the government of canada intends to ensure that new and established players in the island’s food sector receive the support they need to continue to evolve, collaborate and discover new markets.
stimulating an innovative food economy
today, sean casey, member of parliament for charlottetown, announced a non-repayable contribution of $336,300 to the food island partnership to support the growth of pei’s food ecosystem. the announcement was made on behalf of the honorable gudie hutchings, minister of rural economic development and minister responsible for acoa.
the government of prince edward island is also providing $321,600 in grant funding to the food island partnership to support the growth of agri-food businesses.
these investments will allow food island partnership to continue to offer innovative programs like food xcel, food propel and food works, which support the start-up and growth of food and beverage businesses. funding will also focus on quality assurance, human resources expertise and other specialized services to help businesses grow and evolve.
today’s announcement demonstrates the canadian government’s commitment to the food sector in atlantic canada, supporting growth and job opportunities in rural communities and working with regional organizations to help preserve canada’s competitive capacity on a global scale.
editor’s note: this article is a translation. apologies should the grammar and/or sentence structure not be perfect.
###
cuet-2024-nta-announces-exam-schedule-for-undergraduate-admissions-346568: 
srinagar: the national testing agency has launched the common university entrance test (cuet) for admission into undergraduate programmes in central universities and other participating institutes.
the deadline for submission of the online application form is 26 march 2024. exam cities will be announced on 30 april, admit cards will be available in the 2nd week of may, and the results will be declared on 30 june 2024.
for the 2024-25 session, cuet (ug) will be held in hybrid mode (computer-based and pen and paper).
the exam will be conducted in 13 languages: english, hindi, assamese, bengali, gujarati, kannada, malayalam, marathi, odia, punjabi, tamil, telugu, and urdu. the exam is being offered in 380 cities, including 26 cities outside india.
the examination will consist of 61 total subjects, which include 33 language and 27 subject tests. candidates can choose up to 6 subjects/languages. it is advisable for candidates to select at least one language and the general test.
the duration for all test papers would be 45 minutes, except for mathematics/applied mathematics, accountancy, physics, chemistry, economics, computer science/informatics practices, and general tests, which would be 60 minutes. the examination will be conducted on multiple days in two or three shifts, depending on the number of candidates and subject choices.
for further queries, candidates can contact 011-40759000/011-69227700 or email at [email protected].
to apply for cuet ug, visit https://exams.nta.ac.in/cuet-ug/
###
1163091-190m-nca-case-chargesheet-says-imran-bushra-benefitted-from-deal: 
islamabad: the chargesheet in £190 million al-qadir trust case against pti founder imran khan and bushra bibi has come to surface, detailing the benefits they got.
it revealed that in april 2019, al-qadir university did not exist. in britain, the national crime agency traced the £190 million scam. before the money was transferred to pakistan, the head of east recovery unit shahzad akbar made a secret agreement with a business tycoon.
the chargesheet says shahzad akbar signed the national crime agency (nca) confidentiality deed on december 6, 2019 while the then prime minister imran khan approved the al-qadir trust in the cabinet.
the charge sheet further said bushra bibi helped imran khan by signing documents as trustee on march 24, 2021.
the report says a meeting between the tycoon and former prime minister imran khan, along with the former accountability adviser shahzad akbar, took place before the settlement of 190 million pounds.
as per the pm house record, the meeting took place on july 11, 2019.
it is pertinent to mention that pti founder imran khan and his wife bushra bibi were indicted in the £190 million graft case during a hearing held by the islamabad’s accountability court in adiala jail on tuesday.
the court has now sought five witnesses in the next hearing. accountability court judge nasir javed rana held the hearing and announced the verdict.
both the accused refused the charges levelled against them by the prosecution. however, two applications submitted by imran khan have been approved.
the pti founder had sought permission to have a checkup by a dentist as well as a general physician of his choice.
the hearing was adjourned till march 6.
the record of correspondence with the uk’s national crime agency, held by the asset recovery unit of the previous government, has disappeared.
###
flamenco-professor-and-director-named-national-fellow: 
an icon at the university of new mexico and the greater albuquerque dance community is receiving well-earned national recognition.
national institute of flamenco (nif) executive director and unm dance professor marisol encinias has just been named a national association of latino arts and cultures (nalac) 2024 advocacy leadership fellow.
art administration is anything that involves the work that makes it possible for the arts to take place. it’s the logistics behind it. one of my areas of interest as an artist and scholar is community work in the arts and how they can take place in a community in an effective way. what kind of access does the community have to art programming, performance and education?
“i’m very excited about the possibility of continuing to learn what i can bring back. being a rep of this work and being selected to be part of this conversation i think says there are some interesting things happening at unm," encinias said. "being part of this will help me continue to learn and grow to be even more effective.”
the nalac is the nation’s premier nonprofit organization exclusively dedicated to the promotion, advancement, development, and cultivation of the latino arts field. encinias was chosen as just one of 13 fellows to enhance cultural advocacy in her community.
“the cohort of people selected for this have a lot of experience, across different mediums and genres of the arts. i'm excited to be able to be a part of this cohort and learn and think about how i can be more effective in advocating for my community at a local or national level,” encinias said.
in addition to countless hours spent teaching, choreographing and performing flamenco across many different stages, especially at unm, encinias serves as the artistic director and curator of festival flamenco alburquerque. her newest work, mestizx (feb 2024), is a work of flamenco dance theatre and is performed by unm-hosted yjastros: the american flamenco repertory company.
“i think it says that there is interesting work that is taking place through flamenco and in the arts that represent latin american culture in albuquerque,” she said. “it says the work is interesting enough that the future we’re headed to and really what we're doing at unm and in flamenco will be even brighter and more impactful.”
she has also helped found a charter school, tierra adentro, that offers a model of culturally relevant and academic success in new mexico. this balance between education and community is one she hopes to perfect with this fellowship.
“i’ve learned in new mexico what the role of arts in youth is. i’m interested in seeing how there can be better practices and better help for the creative art industry,” encinias said. “it’s hard to have stability, so in my arts practice i want to learn how we can address issues of social justice through government connections and make art more equitable.”
the 2024 cohort will focus on a two-month virtual program led by nalac faculty and staff, featuring a curriculum centered on advocacy, civic participation, legislation, and policy efforts for arts and cultural workers.
following the virtual program, nalac staff, ali faculty, and fellows will come together in washington, d.c., to meet with federal arts agencies, smithsonian institutional leaders, and state and u.s representatives to advocate for congressional priorities in arts and culture legislation on behalf of the nonprofit arts and culture field. the visit will include sessions on capitol hill and with the national assembly of state arts agencies, national endowment for the arts, archives of american art, pew research center, and americans for the arts.
“this is for people who are interested in being involved in art administration. it’s for getting training in art advocacy through the government and learning how to try to make change on a larger level. we’ll get that training,” encinias said.
encinias invites the community to join her in this greater embrace of arts in new mexico, by coming to the 37th annual festival alburquerque at unm in june.
“these ideas of advocacy and what we’re trying to do will be put forward into the festival representation of artists and how we treat artists in the process,” she said. “i imagine once i’m exposed i will try to incorporate the ideas and experiences in that as an artist. it will probably have an influence on the work that we’re doing in june.”
###
koome-to-meet-new-lsk-leaders-over-huduma-centre-desks: 
nairobi, kenya, mar 2 — chief justice martha koome has invited the law society of kenya (lsk) to a meeting on thursday to discuss the petition filed by the bar association against the rollout of judiciary desks at huduma centers.
the lsk claimed in a letter dated february 6, 2024, that despite the efforts to establish a consultative forum on the said matter the judiciary had remained unresponsive.
on saturday, koome’s office however said it will not included in the e-filing services to be launched on march 11.
“in view of the proceedings pending before the high court (nairobi const. petition no e030 of 2024 & nairobi const. petition no e032 of 2024), the six pilot judiciary desks at huduma centres do not form part of the e-filing services scheduled to be launched on 11th march, 2024 in spite of previous correspondence to this effect. the programme has also been revised accordingly,” the cj’s office said.
koome promised to facilitate structured quarterly meetings between the judiciary leadership team and the lsk (national office) and lsk branch leadership as a mechanism to assure continued constructive dialogue.
the lsk issued a seven-day ultimatum on friday, march 1, to start substantive talks before launching the judiciary desks in various huduma centers, run under the ministry of public service.
the bar association had advised its membership to boycott the provision of all court services and their attendance to matters in court on march 11.
lsk opposition
the judiciary announced the planned activation of judiciary desks at several huduma centers on january 24, with access to certain services across the centers.
some of the services include filing a new civil case, filing documents in an existing case, and requesting for and issuance of summons.
the desks would also field requests for issuance of mentioned dates, general case inquiries, e-filing support, payment of fines and deposits, and virtual court support.
however, the lsk opposed the move saying it lacked stakeholders’ consultation, claiming it will attract masqueraders and increase unethical practices.
former lsk president theuri said there ought to be consultation before the availing of judiciary services at huduma centres.
“chances that the initiative can be abused by masqueraders and increase avenues for unethical practices abound,” he said.
###
missing-13-old-believed-dead-231413478.html: 
missing 13-year-old believed dead; police in florida say mom's boyfriend moved body
florida authorities say they now believe that a missing 13-year-old girl who never made it to school on monday is dead and that her mother’s boyfriend moved her body, the orange county sheriff’s office in orlando announced.
speaking at a news conference on friday, orange county sheriff john mina said authorities are “confident” that madeline soto is dead after reviewing disturbing video evidence that appears to show her mother’s boyfriend, 37-year-old stephan sterns, throwing items into a dumpster behind their apartment building in kissimmee.
madeline’s mother, jenn soto, told police she thought sterns was taking her daughter to school but later found out that the girl never arrived there and she reported her missing.
police had previously said sterns had dropped madeline off near her school, but they now say they’ve learned he never dropped her off at all, mina said. video footage appears to show that when sterns returned to the apartment complex, madeline was in the car. police say they think she was already dead at that time.
according to mina, investigators searching the dumpster found madeline’s backpack and her school-issued laptop.
stern was arrested on wednesday night on suspicion of sexual battery and possession of child sexual abuse material.
according to an emergency arrest warrant shared with huffpost, police alleged that sterns was in possession of several images that werecriminal and sexual in nature and videos that depicted an underaged girl.
it’s unclear whether the girl in the videos was madeline, but authorities said in an earlier news release that the “crimes were committed at the family home in kissimmee.”
madeline’s mother is not considered a suspect in the investigation.
###
norway-savings-bank-donates-10k-to-sad-17-field-trips: 
norway — norway savings bank contributed another $10,000 in february to the vinking funds program, which pays for student field trips, including over 20 locations around new england, from maine wildlife park in gray to the museum of science and freedom trail in boston.
viking funds is a nod to the oxford hills’ mascot.
all students have benefited, including at schools in norway, oxford, west paris, south paris, otisfield, harrison, hebron and waterford, according to a news release from the bank.
in late 2022, after receiving many requests from teachers and administrators in school administrative district 17 for student programs at several elementary schools, the bank decided to do its best to help enrich every student it could at once. the bank has contributed over $40,000 in 15 months.
“many schools across the country have been forced to make difficult decisions in recent years, including the elimination or minimization of field trips in budgets, forcing families to raise the funds in some cases,” dan walsh, president and ceo of norway savings bank, said. “nsb is a huge promoter of providing learning opportunities for our children that make a positive impact on the students without adding financial stress to their families.”
“this funding has allowed us to give our students experiences they would otherwise not have had,” jessika sheldrick, principal of otisfield community school, said, adding that the donation “has helped us broaden the students’ horizons.”
success. please wait for the page to reload. if the page does not reload within 5 seconds, please refresh the page.
enter your email and password to access comments.
invalid username/password.
please check your email to confirm and complete your registration.
use the form below to reset your password. when you've submitted your account email, we will send an email with a reset code.
send questions/comments to the editors.
###
this-online-learning-program-is-teaching-preschoolers-in-crisis-situations: 
this online learning program is teaching preschoolers in crisis situations
mary louise kelly, host:
over the past couple of years, millions of kids in the middle east have been tuning into a remote learning program called "ahlan simsim."
(soundbite of tv show, "ahlan simsim")
unidentified musical group: (singing in arabic).
kelly: the title means "welcome sesame" in arabic. it is an arabic-language show from the sesame workshop created for children affected by conflict and featuring muppets called basma, jad, ameera alongside old regulars like elmo.
(soundbite of tv show, "ahlan simsim")
unidentified actor: (as elmo, speaking arabic).
kelly: well, the show, as reporter anya kamenetz describes it, is the largest-ever humanitarian intervention specifically intended for small children's development. she's written about it in a piece for the mit technology review. hey there, anya.
anya kamenetz: hey, mary louise.
kelly: so i know there's this huge push to get this programming in front of kids, especially kids who may be refugees, who've been displaced by war. give me a sense of what it is because it's not just a show, right? how does this work?
kamenetz: so there's different aspects of this program. so in the big picture, there's been about almost 30 million children in the last few years that have just watched this show across various different types of networks and organizations. and then the irc, international rescue committee, partnership was taking those videos and pairing them with basically a preschool program. but what happened was in the early weeks of the pandemic, they had to pivot that program. so they decided that they were going to see if they could use whatsapp to deliver basically online preschool in collaboration with these videos at the same time.
kelly: and i thought some of the details that you reported are fascinating in terms of the content, things they're including, things they're intentionally not including. an example that caught my eye - no nutrition lessons for kids because these are kids who are barely getting enough to eat. they don't need to be lectured on, like, choose healthy vegetables.
kamenetz: yeah, it's really heartbreaking. i mean, as part of the reporting, i get a chance to communicate by zoom with some of these families. and they mentioned to me that, you know, the kids - they're not even able right now to buy milk or yogurt. they're buying pita and za'atar spices. and so, yes, they left out nutrition. they also really had to think about the trauma that these kids had been through. so a very typical thing that you'd see on a preschoolers' program is a boat, and they didn't include boats.
kelly: and the no boats - this is because so many have been refugees and had to take boat journeys, or...
kamenetz: that's right. they're aiming at - you know, primarily at syrian refugees living in camps in lebanon. just the idea of people having to leave their home is something that they had to really address in a very delicate way.
kelly: oh, yeah. that's heartbreaking. one challenge that occurs to me is that if you're going to do remote learning like this, you need a solid internet connection. you need a device to engage with it. has that been an obstacle?
kamenetz: oh, my gosh, yes. i mean, you had families - you know, they're going up on the rooftop to get a better connection. they're borrowing phones from other family members, showing how committed these families were to making sure that the kids had this learning and this social-emotional services.
kelly: well, i guess my next question is, does it work? i know that researchers at nyu, new york university, have studied that.
kamenetz: that's right. so when they looked at the case of pairing the videos - the "ahlan simsim" program - with the services, which was whatsapp calls with preschool teachers and kids, they found that an 11-week program produced almost a year's worth of learning and even social-emotional progress. so 11 weeks of this online programming, the kids are gaining as much as they would with a year of regular preschool.
kelly: wow. how do they explain that?
kamenetz: it's really amazing, right? so first of all, you have to understand, obviously, the context here. about a third of the mothers in these families were illiterate themselves. and so with the preschool teachers, a lot of times, they are leaving voice memos instead of messages, and they are literally coaching the parents to write letters to show their children how to do it. and so what sherrie westin and other folks at sesame told me and people on the ground told me was it just is a testament to the dedication and the amount of reverence that these families had for education.
kelly: are there any lessons here for remote learning outside of crisis zones? i'm thinking of, you know, american kids, many of whom - most of whom did remote learning during the pandemic. and i don't know of any parents - this is anecdotal. but as a parent myself, i don't know of anybody who thought their kid in 11 weeks achieved what they would have in a year's worth of actual real school.
kamenetz: absolutely not. and so this is something that we should be cautious about overgeneralizing because remote learning is not anyone's first choice, and it shouldn't be. but what really is remarkable about how they structured this program was that this is a full-family engagement programs. and it's sort of a misnomer, in a way, to think of it as online learning, at least in a passive way. so i think that that's really important to keep in mind.
kelly: npr alum anya kamenetz. she's now a freelance education reporter. her piece in the mit technology review is headlined "yes, remote learning can work for preschoolers." thanks, anya.
kamenetz: thank you. transcript provided by npr, copyright npr.
npr transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an npr contractor. this text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. accuracy and availability may vary. the authoritative record of npr’s programming is the audio record.
###
202403020033.html: 
this is what a ceni press release states. this document signed by the president, dago yabré, brings to the attention of political parties, groupings of political parties and groups of independent candidates, that "the date for submission of candidacy files, initially set for wednesday february 28, 2024, is extended to wednesday march 6, 2024 at midnight.
please note, these files are received "every working day from 7:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and from 2:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. with the exception of the last day when the files are submitted from 7:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and from 2:30 p.m. to midnight.
candidates for the deputy elections will have to submit their applications to the headquarters of the ceni while those for the regional elections will have to submit their applications to the headquarters of each celi.
t228
###
fully-remote-jobs-apply-march-2024: 
as the calendar turns to march, job hunters may notice a surge in new listings. that's because many companies now have a handle on their budgets for the new financial year, which starts in april. fully remote jobs are very much included in the fy24 hiring spree now underway, making this one of the best times of year to land yourself a position with the flexibility you've always wanted.
in the post pandemic world, the advantages of home working are no longer a secret. you save a huge amount of money not commuting and buying oat flat whites every day, not to mention keeping your carbon emissions down.
the time saved on the freeway is also time you get to reinvest in friends, family, and hobbies, which is why studies like our own impact of technology on the workplace report show such a clear link between fully remote work and job satisfaction.
if you're here, you probably don't need any more convincing, so let's dive into the best fully remote jobs you can apply for in march 2024.
microsoft
microsoft is something of a trailblazer when it comes to working from home. it's ranked as the top remote work company by respected careers site indeed, which is no surprise when you see that it's currently hiring for nearly 1,300 positions globally that are open to “up to 100% work from home” flexibility.
these include nearly 800 fully remote jobs being hired for this march in the us, with a heavy focus on software engineers but also ample opportunities across sales, marketing, and various support functions.
🔎 want to browse the web privately? 🌎 or appear as if you're in another country?
get a huge 86% off surfshark with this special tech.co offer.
compensation at microsoft is usually ample and right now the tech giant seems particularly keen to add experience to its ranks, meaning salaries in excess of $100k are usually the norm.
this means you'll have to look elsewhere for remote jobs you can do with no qualifications, but provided you've got a robust resume then microsoft could be an ideal landing spot if you want to work from home most or all of the time.
here's a small sample of some of the fully remote jobs live at microsoft this march.
- principal content manager
- technical program manager
- senior abuse and fraud specialist
- software engineer (multiple levels and vacancies)
- copilot integrated marketing lead
- technical support engineer
- senior data scientist
- technology consultant – data & ai
- principal security researcher
- senior director, partner sales
apply for these jobs and view specifics such as salary ranges over at the microsoft careers site.
salesforce
salesforce is a tech industry giant that's known for many things. its annual user conference, dreamforce, is one of the world's biggest tech events. its flagship software is one of the best sales dashboards (and most popular crms) around. and it's a great employer when it comes to fully remote working.
while not as universally pro-remote work as somewhere like microsoft, salesforce still offers flexible working arrangements for many positions. after all, its larger than life ceo marc benioff is known to be a remote worker himself and the outlook trickles down to most areas of the company, not just the hangar he keeps his gulfstream private jet in.
right now, it translates into over 150 remote jobs being hired for at salesforce, which is up from the 133 vacancies we highlighted in our february '24 roundup. that's a positive sign, especially if you're a software engineer, developer or sales rep, as this month's listings are heavy on these kinds of roles.
heck, you might even find yourself working with the department of defense! here's a taste of the fully remote jobs at salesforce this month.
- senior salesforce developer
- success guide
- account executive
- sales strategy manager
- director, engagement delivery
- product security engineer
- digital designer
- technical account manager
- account executive, department of defense
head over to the salesforce jobs site to apply and learn more.
williams-sonoma
a new entrant and our first dark horse this month is williams-sonoma. yep, the same williams-sonoma that sells those fancy chocolate covered strawberries you buy your boss every christmas (but you're still waiting on that promotion, hence you're here).
with hundreds of stores in the us and around the world, plus high profile sub-brands like pottery barn to its name, williams-sonoma is a billion dollar company that's current advertising a handful of intriguing remote jobs.
while some arms of the multinational company have instigated a return-to-office policy, its customer care division still boasts a nearly 85% fully remote workforce. there aren't as many as some of the big names on this list, but these are more entry-level jobs and make a good jumping off point if your resume doesn't double as a doorstop.
they also currently have at least one part-time opportunity we've spied, making it ideal for someone looking to devote more time to their family or side hustle.
- chargeback associate, fraud operations
- customer service representative (full-time)
- customer service representative (part-time)
- project manager
- virtual design studio specialist x2
you can apply for these roles at the williams-sonoma customer care team site, or browse the company's full range of over 1,000 current vacancies, bearing in mind we can only 100% confirm the ones highlighted above as fully remote.
what to make of google? the company has basically said it will penalize workers who don't return to the office, yet continues to widely offer remote work as a perk for a number of roles.
as of march 2024, in practice this means google is hiring for more than 75 jobs listed as “remote eligible.” these aren't applications for the faint hearted, though, and you can expect a rigorous interview process in addition to the basic requirements like multiple years of experience in your field and a bachelor's or masters degree.
google's cloud division seems to be on a particular hiring spree at the minute, so here are some of the fully remote jobs you can apply for right now:
- data analytics and ai sales lead, public sector
- data center architect
- senior information security engineer
- staff research scientist, google research
- enterprise field sales representative, google cloud
- tech lead, product security engineering
- field solutions engineer i, generative ai, google cloud
- developer relations engineer
learn more about these and other opportunities over at google's careers website.
intuit
intuit is the company behind major business software such as quickbooks and mailchimp, but more than that, it's one of the most remote friendly employers around.
in its latest survey of the best remote work companies, indeed gives it a flexibility score of 88/100, which is second only to microsoft in its 2024 power rankings. it even offers fully virtual internships, which is a rarity these days now covid has (mostly) faded from view.
there's less overall opportunities at intuit right now compared some of the names on this list, but if you do find the right fit for your skill set you can sign on the dotted line knowing you'll be working a company that's genuinely committed to remote work.
perhaps unsurprisingly for the accounting software developer, there's serious demand for folks well versed in tax matters. here are our intuit job highlights for march.
- digital sales consultant (inbound and outbound vacancies)
- partner development manager
- tax associates and experts (multiple vacancies)
- quickbooks live expert
- multi-domain expert, selecttime
- director business development
- senior manager of strategic success, mailchimp
head over to the company's jobs page to learn more and apply.
cvs health
with nearly 10,000 stores across the us, drugstore chain cvs needs no introduction (especially if you're from the east coast, where you literally cannot avoid them).
however, its place in our monthly guide to the best fully remote job opportunities needs a bit more context, as you might associate it more with working part-time summer of senior year.
in actual fact, it's also a major wfh employer and continues to impress us with just shy of 400 fully remote job vacancies at the time of writing this march. that's down considerably from the nearly 700 openings we noted in february, but it's still a more than healthy number and the flipside is it means the company successfully hired for around 300 remote roles last month!
current vacancies span a range of departments from government relations and technology to clinical services, program management and business administration.
here are our picks for the best remote jobs at cvs right now.
- senior analyst, resource planning
- case manager (multiple vacancies)
- medical director, behavioral health (special investigations)
- senior manager, actuarial services
- senior android engineer
- inbound queue associate, behavioral health
- senior technical program manager
- medicaid pharmacy support technician
- quality assurance consultant
that's only scratching the surface, so check out the cvs careers website for even more great fully remote jobs and to apply.
unitedhealth group
sticking with the healthcare theme for a moment, another dark horse when it comes to working remotely is unitedhealth group. it's a major player in the world of health insurance and lays claim to a workforce that's “over 25%” telecommuters.
that equates to well over 400 fully remote jobs at unitedhealth being hired for this march, including both healthcare-specific and more general roles across the group.
some of the vacancies that stood out to us this month, and which part of the group's umbrella they fall under, include:
- senior pharmacy audit representative, optum
- senior digital content strategist, united healthcare
- associate claims representative, united healthcare
- senior manager data analytics, united healthcare
- central support operations coordinator, optum
- part-time licensed therapist, optum
- executive assistant, optum
head over to the unitedhealth website to apply and browse all of its latest vacancies.
amazon
there's a strong case that amazon shouldn't be on this list, as it has been one of the more radical supporters of the return to office movement. the online mega mart shamefully appears to be stopping employee promotions for those who don't fall in line, yet it still hires for a number remote roles that you might want to know about.
in fact, the company claims that “remote working is a key aspect of our business' growth” and there's no doubt it's a big employer globally in this respect, with over 70 vacancies live at the time of writing this march.
that's up from last month, based on our research, and those with technical expertise will be particularly well served. here are our picks for the top amazon remote jobs this month you can apply for.
- senior operations engineer (multiple vacancies)
- regional pr manager
- senior software engineer, mobile video
- senior penetration testing engineer, aws gen ai security
- creative director, art (twitch)
- launch training manager, amazon fresh stores
- senior content editor, strategic seller comms
- salesforce developer, ring
head over to amazon's job search site to apply or find more opportunities.
###
on-the-run-swiss-criminal-arrested-in-debrecen.html: 
on the run swiss criminal arrested in debrecen
- 1 mar 2024 7:52 am
- hungary matters
the 29-year-old man sentenced to over five and a half years in prison was detained in a raid in a luxury apartment block in the city on feb. 20, the site said.
the man wanted on an international and european list was handed a 2-year prison term by the zurich regional court in 2019 and an additional 44-month term in 2020, said the site, adding that he was facing extradition.
********************************************************************************************
you're very welcome to comment, discuss and enjoy more stories, via our facebook page:
facebook.com/xpatloopnews + via xpatloop’s groups: budapest expats / expats hungary
you can subscribe to our newsletter here:
xpatloop.com/newsletters
do you want your business to reach tens of thousands of potential high-value expat customers?
then just contact us here!
###
a1119889: 
this article first appeared on ijnet and has been republished with permission
“you don’t need a phd from mit to make a difference in the fight for algorithmic justice. all you need is a curious mind and a human heart."joy buolamwini, phd, “unmasking ai”
in 2023, english-language global media quoted five male figures in artificial intelligence (ai) – elon musk, sam altman, geoffrey hinton, jensen huang and greg brockman – eight times more frequently than all 42 women ai experts highlighted in time magazine's top 100 list of ai influencers, which includes names like grimes, margrethe vestager, timnit gebru, margaret mitchell, emily bender and joy buolamwini.
this gender bias, uncovered by akas' analysis of 5 million online news articles in 2023 that reference ai on gdelt global online news database, has flown under journalism’s radar. mitigating gender bias in discussions around ai is an important way to ensure that news reflects the diversity of our world, and is relevant to as wide an audience as possible.
i spoke with several experts about biases in generative ai, including gender bias, and the role of journalism in breaking these biases.
the three man-made biases created by generative ai
the existence of biases baked into generative ai (genai) – which includes chatgpt, google's bard, and image generators like midjourney – quiets, distorts, and silences if not outright erases the voices of certain underrepresented groups.
this is because generative ai amplifies societal biases through the datasets it uses in algorithms to generate text, images and video that use an unrepresentative small group as a default for the whole global population.
programmers' own perspectives of the world also inform the algorithms they develop, adding further bias to generated content. for example, facial recognition technology, used in policing, is disproportionately based on data from white (80 per cent) and male (75 per cent) faces.
while the accuracy is 99-100 per cent in detecting white male faces, it falls sharply to 65 per cent for black women. similarly, genai-assisted news articles are heavily reliant on a historical pool of articles in which men's share of contributor/protagonist voices is multiple times higher than that of women.
algorithms created with these biases become what joy buolamwini refers to in her new book, unmasking ai, as "the coded gaze" (i.e. the priorities, preferences and even the prejudices of coders reflected in the products they have shaped). the groups who are underrepresented become "the excoded" (i.e. individuals or communities that are harmed by algorithmic systems). the "coded gaze" deepens biases that exist in the datasets.
a third layer of bias comes from product users, for instance the early adopters of genai text generators like chatgpt or image generators like midjourney, dall-e and stable diffusion. in the words of octavia sheepshanks, journalist and ai researcher, "what often doesn't get mentioned is the fact that it's the people using the images that have also shaped the image generator models."
these early product users further shape the ai-generated content through the way in which they interact with the products, with their own biases being fed back to the self-learning algorithms.
global-northern-white-male dominated perspectives
what do these datasets, programmers and product users all have in common? they are overwhelmingly more likely to represent the perspectives, values and tastes of english-speaking white men from cultures in the northern hemisphere.
in an august 2023 content analysis of chatgpt, which explores how gender and race influences the portrayal of ceos in chatgpt’s content, kalev leetaru, founder of the gdelt project, concluded that "the end result raises existential gender and racial bias questions" about large language models (llms).
for example, while chatgpt had described successful white male ceos in terms of their skills, successful female ceos and ceos of colour were described in terms of their identity and ability to fight adversity, rather than their competency-based skillset.
libertarian views that value defending freedom of expression and protecting innovation online over interventionism pervade big tech and engineering schools. they present a roadblock to addressing bias in ai.
hany farid, a computer science professor at the university of california, berkeley, worries that these views mask ethical ignorance at best, or an underlying apathy and lack of care on the part of the ai sector at worst. they represent, he argues, "a dangerous way to look at the world, especially when you focus on the harms that have been done to women, children, and under-represented groups, societies and democracies."
- read more: how journalists can combat ai bias
journalism adds a fourth impediment to tackling the problem of genai bias
there is a danger that journalists are also helping write women and other underrepresented groups out of the future of ai. currently, only a small minority of tech news editors in the us (18 per cent) and the uk (23 per cent) are women.
furthermore, in ai news coverage women are featured as experts, contributors or protagonists four times less frequently than men, according to our gdelt analysis.
when we overlay the race dimension onto gender, the problem is compounded in several ways. firstly, women of colour are significantly more likely than men or white women to be left out of editorial decision-making and as contributors to stories. secondly, when they are interviewed, women of colour are much more likely to be asked questions based on their identity rather than their expertise.
agnes stenbom, head of in/lab in schibsted, sweden warns that news organisations must be mindful of their use of gendered language – for example, not assuming that doctors are men and nurses women – as this can “further cement” gendered biases.
lars damgaard nielsen, ceo and co-founder of denmark’s mediacatch, warns that women of colour are especially underrepresented in the news in denmark. this is reflected in how people of coloir are portrayed in the news, according to an analysis last year using mediacatch’s ai-based tool diversitycatch, which showed that "non-western individuals are often not there because of their professional expertise, but because of their identity."
journalism must act as a watchdog for genai technology to mitigate existing biases
the most effective way to mitigate homogeneity-related biases is to create more inclusive datasets, as buolamwini argues in her book. however, regulators and journalists face a significant challenge that they should push back against – they do not know the exact data that ai draws from due to the ai industry’s lack of transparency.
"transparency is becoming more and more limited. as profit has entered into the equation, companies have become more proprietary with their models and less willing to share," argued jessica kuntz, policy director at pitt cyber. this absence of transparency prevents algorithmic audits, making it difficult for journalists to build guardrails to protect against biases.
if the genai space is left to develop unchallenged, as big tech currently stipulates, a future ai-rich world will find itself increasingly lacking a diversity of perspectives, such as those of women, ethnic minorities, publics from the global south and other cultures.
luba kassova is the author of the missing perspectives of women in news report series, including the latest "from outrage to opportunity," as well as articles in different outlets, including the guardian, foreign policy and euobserver. she is the co-founder and director of the international consultancy akas. luba's work has been quoted in news outlets in more than 75 countries.
luba kassova is also moderating a panel discussion about what young audiences really want from the news at the digital journalism conference newsrewired on 22 may 2024. check out the full agenda and grab your ticket now
free daily newsletter
if you like our news and feature articles, you can sign up to receive our free daily (mon-fri) email newsletter (mobile friendly).
related articles
- how nrk uses ai-generated summaries to boost younger readers’ engagement
- new blockchain verification tool to help fight the use of deep fakes in elections
- thinking outside the [chat]box
- predictions for journalism 2024: ai and audience revenue
- how ai can help journalists track mps financial interests
###
nicaragua-files-icj-suit-on-germany-for-facilitating-the-commission-of-genocide-in-gaza: 
nicaragua files icj suit on germany for ‘facilitating the commission of genocide’ in gaza
the hague, mar 1 (efe).- nicaragua filed a case against germany at the international court of justice, accusing it of violating the genocide convention by providing financial and military aid to israel and defunding the un agency for palestinian refugees (unrwa), the un’s top court said friday.
“germany is facilitating the commission of genocide and, in any case has failed in its obligation to do everything possible to prevent the commission of genocide,” nicaragua said in its filing, according to the court’s press release.
nicaragua asked the icj to issue emergency measures requiring berlin to cease its military aid to israel and reverse its decision to cut off funding to unrwa, arguing that this amounts to germany’s “participation in the ongoing plausible genocide and serious breaches of international humanitarian law and other peremptory norms of general international law occurring in the gaza strip.”
because germany is a signatory to the 1948 genocide convention, the 1949 geneva conventions and their additional protocols, it has “a duty” to “do everything possible to prevent the commission of genocide,” nicaragua said.
but germany has “failed in its obligation” and is instead “facilitating the commission of genocide” by providing political, financial and military support to israel, while at the same time defunding unrwa at a time when there is “a recognized risk of genocide against the palestinian people, directed first of all against the population of the gaza strip.”
in a separate case, south africa filed a case in late december accusing israel of violating the genocide convention with its operations in gaza, leading the icj to issue interim measures in january requiring israel to take “immediate and effective” steps to prevent the commission of genocide against palestinians in gaza.
in late january, the israeli defense forces accused 12 unrwa workers of participating in the oct. 7 hamas attacks that killed 1,139 people and abducted 240, by participating in kidnappings and massacres of civilians.
this prompted the un to order an investigation into the agency and 18 countries – including germany, the united states, japan and france- to announce the suspension of their contributions. efe
ir/ics/mcd
###
article67904950.ece: 
the madras high court on friday granted bail to dmk mla e. karunanithi’s son anto mathivanan and daughter-in-law marlena anne in a case booked against the couple for having allegedly tortured their domestic help belonging to a scheduled caste community.
justice m. nirmal kumar granted the relief on condition that the petitioners must appear before the investigating officer every day for a period of two weeks. the order was passed after the prosecution submitted the details of investigation conducted so far.
the police also told the court that the victim’s educational certificates had been recovered from the accused and that she had already filed a petition before the court concerned for return of those certificates to her in order to pursue higher education.
the court was informed that the couple had engaged the domestic help through a manpower agency for a monthly salary of ₹16,000. while the victim alleged torture at the hands of the couple, the latter denied the charge and claimed to have treater her well.
the police had booked the couple under various provisions of the indian penal code as well as the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes (prevention of atrocities) act, 1989. thereafter, an officer in the rank of assistant commissioner of police had undertaken the investigation.
###
Google-Cloud-puts-AI-at-centre-of-data-analytics-plans: 
laurent - stock.adobe.com
google cloud puts ai at centre of data analytics plans
artificial intelligence will bridge the gap between structured and unstructured data, predicts google cloud’s gerrit kazmaier
artificial intelligence (ai) will play a growing role in unlocking the value in enterprise data, according to google cloud’s lead executive for data analytics.
gerrit kazmaier, vice-president and general manager for database, data analytics and looker at google cloud, told computer weekly that the cloud and search giant’s customers are already combining ai with more conventional business intelligence tools.
this is because ai helps bring together structured and unstructured data, said kazmaier. ai systems are starting to perform increasingly complex analysis, but they can at much faster speeds and with much greater volumes of information than human experts.
google is supporting its customers in this by drawing on its background in search, as well as its cloud resources and its experience developing the transformer model, one of the foundations of generative ai systems.
“we are reimagining, let’s call it, the google search for enterprise data,” said kazmaier. much of this is about combining the potential of ai tools, including generative ai, trained largely on public data, with the domain and business specific information held in businesses’ enterprise applications and data lakes.
“so far, google search is active mostly in the public domain or the public web,” he said. “there was ultimately a big opportunity of bringing this to the enterprise domain, basically giving every data point that exists in companies, which are not part of the worldwide web, a similar interface.
“everyone knows how to use google. every ceo on the planet, i’m confident, knows how to use google to search the public web. i’m equally confident that only a very small number of persons on this planet and certainly a small number of ceos would be able to use a dashboarding tool for themselves to find information about their own enterprise.
“with generative ai [genai], we have the opportunity to talk to your enterprise data, as you can talk to public data via google search.”
google ‘gets’ data
google has a “cultural understanding” of the need to make information more accessible, according to kazmaier. this is at the heart of its mission to bring ai and conventional analytics together.
“from a technologist point of view, it starts with searching the world’s information and making relevant information universally accessible and useful. that is required to build technology, which is heavily used today in generative ai,” he continued.
“there is a reason why google was the original inventor of the transformer model, which is now the underlying architecture of all of these models be it gemini [formerly google’s bard], or chatgpt, [meta’s] llama and so on.
“there is a deep understanding first of all, when we say that we want to map someone’s question to a meaningful answer, about the technology that we need to build to understand the semantics for processing that efficiently, and to give it back in a form factor a human can work with.”
google has set out a roadmap to build ai into its analytics tools, integrating bigquery with vertex ai, enabling data to ai workflows in bigquery studio and allowing users to create machine learning models in bigquery ml and export them to vertex ai, as well as adding features to looker and looker studio.
in google’s view, one of the applications for generative ai in the enterprise with the most promise is helping non-specialists interact with business data.
rather than learning coding or analytics skills, or to write queries and design dashboards, genai should allow business users to interact with a database, data warehouse or data lake application using natural language – and to get a response in natural language too.
this has two key advantages, aside from ease of use.
it removes the need to filter data to match the format and capabilities of a dashboard. this inevitably means some information will be truncated or removed. and only a minority of enterprise users have the skills to drill down into the analytics tools themselves.
an ai-based system has the potential to be more accurate as it can deal with larger data volumes, and a broader range of data sources. kazmaier referred to this as “wide data”.
the other advantage is that users can interact with ai-driven systems in a more iterative way. they can fine tune and tweak queries, asking further questions until they find the information they need.
kazmaier cites the example of camanchaca, a seafood firm in chile that is using a suite of standard bi tools, including bigquery, vertex ai and looker. it created an ai agent to give all employees access to the company’s data.
“this unlocks data and analytics for the non-data analysis professional. everyone has a question to ask. not everyone has an analyst to answer that question,” he said.
“there are these new use cases emerging for generative ai capabilities, which give us more than dashboarding and traditional data analytics. the consumer is changing, from the data analysts, now to every knowledge worker being given access to meaningful data analysis.”
this allows business intelligence to move from simply displaying data to interpreting information, in the way a human analyst would, according to kazmaier.
“when you look at data you want to have someone knowledgeable, like a professional analysis, to help you interpret that. what does that represent conceptually, or how does that compare?” he said.
“that’s not a question that is necessarily answerable by the data point itself, but you need to someone really calibrated if you will, who understands how to interpret, ‘is this a good or a bad margin? is this a good or a bad, day’s sales outstanding?’.
“this can be trained and encoded and is generated by the agents that we are introducing in our bi offering. so, basically, you are collaborating with an analyst that can help you to understand and to interpret the data that you’ll see. one of the key problems that we have is traditional bi is that we have to compress information to a level that becomes human comprehensible.”
according to kazmaier, the consumers of data are changing. more users want access to data, and ai – especially generative ai – offers a way to open up that access in a way conventional bi cannot.
but there is more to the integration of ai into business intelligence, and into google’s roadmap, than simply providing a better interface. ai offers a way for firms to stay ahead of the seemingly endless growth of enterprise data – and hopefully drive some business value from it at the same time.
kazmaier talks about “wide” rather than big data: not just having more data, but adding more data points to analysis. ai systems are well placed to decide if it is worth taking additional factors into account, he said, and they have the processing power to do this fast enough, as to not hold up decision making.
“one of the biggest changes that we have seen is the use of unstructured data,” he said. “if you think about it unstructured data, roughly, represents 90% of the world’s data. traditionally, this data has not been used in data analytics. there were specialised applications for documents, or for automating certain processes like paying invoices, but it has not been considered a part of an enterprise data landscape that we actively use, explore and analyse, like you do with structured data.
“with generative ai, working with unstructured data, people understanding it and extracting information from it, becomes enormously flexible and available,” he continued.
and ai tools allow business users to dive deeper into the data and better understand the trends in their organisations: moving from “what, when and where” questions to, ultimately, “why”.
“you have large models being trained on public data, and you can ask them about public domain questions and it’s amazing what it can do,” kazmaier added.
“but these models are not being trained to use an enterprise’s data, and that’s quite interesting. how do we deploy these large [language] models with enterprise data so you can open up all of the insights that you have to your data, so all of them are of use in the company?”
ai agents, he said, are already providing those answers.
read more about cloud and ai
- is oracle’s fusion genai leap a bandwagon move or will it add real power to boost customer happiness?
- with a lot to play for, including legal precedents, how can dev teams approach genai risks with a view to strong mitigation strategies?
###
ralph-leon-spellman-1930-2023: 
on february 16, 2024, ralph l. spellman passed away at hillcrest care center after battling a stroke.
ralph was born to eldon thomas and lois bee (richards) spellman. he was born at home in alvin, colorado ( 18 miles north of laird, colorado). ralph was the third child in a family of eight children. ralph attended county school and the wray high school. ralph worked for his uncle dean thompson and his uncle don thompson on the thompson ranch in the summers. he always loved the ranch and enjoyed many trips and great memories there.
ralph served 2 years in the u.s. army with 16 months in korea as a combat engineer. following discharge, he worked as a civil engineer for the highway department.
ralph married sharon morris in 1962. they had 2 sons, brickton wray and clayton bower. together, they enjoyed family gatherings and a shared love of hunting. sharon passed in 1982.
ralph was a graduate of njc in sterling and the san francisco college of mortuary sciences. following graduation, he returned to yuma and worked in the mortuary with his father-in-law, paul morris. he later took over the business. his friendliness and caring work ethic helped the business thrive. in 1974, ralph bought the wray mortuary. ralph’s nephew, jim schmidt and dan baucke helped operate the 2 mortuaries and the monument business until ralph retired in 1992. ralph’s “retirement” job was selling promotional products. he enjoyed visiting with all his customers and friends he made along the road.
during his lifetime, ralph had the honor of being the mayor of yuma from 1980-1984. he served on many city boards. he served as yuma county coroner for a number of years. he was active and served the lutheran church and area veterans as the veteran service officer. he was a longtime member of the rotary club and maintained perfect attendance for several years.
ralph married leann peters in 1983. he was husband, father and grandpa. he truly enjoyed life. he loved spending time at the thompson ranch with his family and friends. he enjoyed hunting with his brother tom and special friend, ray lerette. ralph did not know a stranger. he enjoyed visiting with everyone he met.
ralph is survived by his wife leann, sons brick (monica) of centennial, colorado and clay of loveland, colorado, grandsons colter, heath, and zane, sisters minnie schmidt and peggy spellman, sister-in-law lois spellman, brother tom (margaret) and numerous nieces, nephews, and friends.
ralph was preceded in death by his parents, e.t. and lois bee spellman, first wife sharon, sisters dorothy schmidt and jennie brown, brothers george and robert spellman, in-laws leland and evelyn peters.
funeral services were wednesday, february 21 at saint john’s lutheran church, yuma, colorado. in lieu of flowers, donations will be accepted for memorials in ralph’s name. arrangements were made by baucke funeral home.
###
the-latest-condemnation-of-israel-s-actions-in-gaza-grows-after-dozens-killed-while-seeking-aid: 
turkey has joined saudi arabia, egypt and jordan in condemning israeli forces shooting desperately hungry palestinians waiting for the delivery of aid, with the turkish foreign ministry accusing israel of using “starvation as a weapon of war in gaza.”
at least 115 palestinians were killed and hundreds more wounded, the health ministry in gaza said. israeli troops apparently fired heavily into the crowd, as more than 80% of the wounded brought to one hospital had been struck by gunfire, the hospital's chief said friday.
israel said many of the dead were trampled in a chaotic crush for the food aid, and that its troops only fired when they felt endangered by the crowd.
the number of palestinians killed in the gaza strip has soared above 30,000 since israel's war on hamas began nearly five months ago after hamas-led militants stormed across southern israel on oct. 7, killing 1,200 people and taking about 250 others hostage.
israel responded with a blistering offensive in the gaza strip that has created a humanitarian catastrophe and devastation in northern areas like gaza city, which are largely cut off from the rest of the territory with little aid entering.
currently:
— eu says it will send funds to gaza's main aid provider after the u.n. agency agrees to an audit.
— veteran british left-wing disruptor george galloway wins a special election dominated by war in gaza.
— palestinian american woman who faces trial in israeli military court is released on bail.
— colombia pauses buying israeli weapons and president calls war in gaza a "genocide."
— journalism leaders ask for more protection for those covering the war.
— find more of ap's coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/israel-hamas-war.
here's the latest:
biden says u.s. will begin airdrops of humanitarian aid to gaza
washington — president joe biden said friday that the u.s. will begin air-dropping humanitarian assistance into gaza, a day after witnesses say israeli troops killed dozens of palestinians as crowds raced to pull goods off an aid convoy.
biden said the air drops will begin in the “coming days,” and made the announcement while hosting italian prime minister giorgia meloni at the white house.
at least 115 palestinians were killed on thursday and more than 750 others were injured, according to gaza’s health ministry.
israel said many of the dead were trampled in a stampede linked to the chaos and that its troops fired at some in the crowd who they believed moved toward them in a threatening way.
palestinian rivals hamas and fatah meet in moscow, first meeting since oct. 7
beirut — representatives of rival palestinian groups hamas and fatah met in an official capacity for the first time since oct. 7 this week at a summit hosted by russia, along with other palestinian factions.
following two days of meetings, the factions said in a joint statement friday that they aim to hold more rounds of meetings to reach “national unity that includes all palestinian forces and factions within the framework of the palestine liberation organization, the sole legitimate representative of the palestinian people.”
hamas is not part of the fatah-dominated plo, which has officially recognized the state of israel. hamas does not — although its leaders have signaled that they are interested in joining the plo, which would at least implicitly entail recognizing israel based upon pre-1967 borders.
hamas political official osama hamdan said last week that his group hopes to reach a “unified position” on future governance of the palestinian territories with fatah and other factions. hamdan said hamas supports a “palestinian government to be formed by the factions” which would be tasked with post-war reconstruction and preparing for general elections in gaza and the israeli-occupied west bank.
the form post-war governance of gaza will take has been a matter of heated debate, including between israel and its primary backer, the united states. while both israel and the u.s. say hamas cannot govern the enclave after the war, the biden administration seeks eventual palestinian governance in gaza and the israeli-occupied west bank as a precursor to palestinian statehood. the government of israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu rejects a two-state solution and envisions hand-picked palestinians administering gaza.
egypt's foreign minister says he hopes for pause in gaza fighting
antalya, turkey — egyptian foreign minister sameh shoukri expressed hope for an agreement to pause fighting in gaza that could lead to a permanent cease-fire.
speaking at a diplomacy forum in the turkish city of antalya, shoukri said it was important that a cease-fire is achieved before the muslim holy month of ramadan, which is expected to begin around march 10.
“we are hopeful that the areas of divergence between the two sides can be bridged and that we can reach at least a temporary cessation of hostilities to lead to a permanent one,” shoukri said.
“if this conflict was to continue in ramadan,” egypt's top diplomat added, “i think this will have a very dire consequence in that the emotions will be further inflamed, the dissatisfaction of the arab and muslim world — not to mention, of course, the west bank and jerusalem — will be aggravated.”
speaking at the same panel, palestinian foreign affairs minister riad malki accused israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu of harboring “undeclared objectives” of depopulating gaza.
“this is exactly what netanyahu wants: to displace people completely out of gaza, to not only to leave gaza uninhabitable, but also to leave gaza with no population,” he said.
malki is a cabinet member in the palestinian authority, which administers semi-autonomous areas of the israeli-occupied west bank.
gaza hospital says 80% of its patients wounded in melee had been hit by gunfire
deir al-balah, gaza strip — the head of a gaza city hospital where some of the wounded from a deadly melee over an aid convoy had been taken said friday that more than 80% had been hit by gunfire.
the remainder of the patients — 34 of 176 —were injured in a stampede triggered by the shooting, said dr. mohammed salha, acting director of the al-awda hospital.
at least 112 palestinians were killed and more than 750 were wounded after huge crowds of desperate people raced to pull goods off an aid convoy thursday, according to health officials.
witnesses said they came under fire from nearby israeli troops. israel said many of the dead were trampled in a stampede linked to the chaos and that its troops only fired when they felt endangered by the crowd.
the high ratio of gunshot injuries among the wounded at al-awda hospital suggests there had been heavy israeli fire.
it was not immediately clear how many of the 112 dead had been killed by gunfire.
salha said doctors at his hospital have been unable to operate on 20 seriously wounded patients from thursday’s incident because of the lack of medicine, medical equipment and diesel for generators.
the hospital, like others in gaza, has been suffering severe shortages since israel declared war following hamas’ deadly oct. 7 attack and unleashed a blistering air and ground offensive across the besieged enclave.
airstrike in syria kills iranian naval captain, news agency reports
tehran, iran — an iranian news outlet reported that an israeli airstrike friday near a coastal syrian town killed a navy captain of iran’s revolutionary guard.
the report by the semi-official tasnim news agency identified the dead guard member as reza zarei, saying he was in syria on an advisory mission.
the britain-based syrian observatory for human rights, an opposition war monitor, reported three explosions in a suburb of the coastal town of baniyas. it said a house was struck, killing an iranian adviser and two others whom it did not identify.
there was no comment from israel or the syrian government.
israel has carried out hundreds of strikes on targets inside government-controlled parts of war-torn syria in recent years.
israel rarely acknowledges its actions in syria, but it has said that it targets bases of iran-allied militant groups, such as lebanon’s hezbollah, which has sent thousands of fighters to support syrian president bashar assad’s forces.
in january, an israeli airstrike on the capital damascus killed five iranian advisers.
the eu agrees conditions for giving $50 million to u.n. agency for gaza
brussels — the european union said friday that it will pay 50 million euros ($54 million) to the main u.n. provider of aid in gaza next week after the agency agreed to allow eu-appointed experts to audit the way it screens staff to identify extremists.
the unrwa agency is reeling from allegations that 12 of its 13,000 gaza staff members participated in the oct. 7 hamas attacks in southern israel. the agency fired the employees, but more than a dozen countries suspended funding worth about $450 million, almost half the budget for 2024.
the eu's executive branch, the european commission, had been due to disburse 82 million euros ($89 million) to unrwa on feb. 29 but wanted the agency to accept its terms for an audit. the commission is the third biggest donor to unrwa after the united states and germany.
it said that the agency has now “indicated that it stands ready to ensure that a review of its staff is carried out to confirm they did not participate in the attacks and that further controls are put in place to mitigate such risks in the future.”
the commission said that two further tranches of funding worth 16 million euros ($17.3 million) each will be given to unrwa as it complies with the agreement.
unrwa is on the brink of financial collapse. in a post on x, formerly twitter, unrwa commissioner-general philippe lazzarini welcomed the eu's announcement and said that the commitment to provide money next week "comes at a critical time."
turkey denounces israeli forces firing on palestinians who were waiting for aid delivery
ankara, turkey — turkey denounced israeli forces firing on palestinians waiting for the delivery of aid as “yet another crime against humanity.”
in a statement issued late thursday, the turkish foreign ministry accused israel of using “starvation as a weapon of war in gaza” and alleged that the latest event, which left more than 100 people dead, was evidence “of israel’s intention to destroy the entire palestinian population.”
“the entire world must realise that the atrocity in gaza is about to become a global catastrophe with repercussions far beyond the region,” the ministry said. “we therefore call on all those with influence over the israeli government to stop the ongoing violence in gaza.”
###
el-paso-police-officer-shoots-injures-trespassing-suspect-armed-with-large-rock: 
el paso police officer shoots, injures trespassing suspect armed with ‘large rock’
el paso, texas (kvia) -- an el paso police officer fired at a trespassing suspect after the suspect allegedly through a "large rock" at the officer, according to eppd officials.
the incident happened february 20, 2024 around 3:45 a.m. on the 7200 block of royal arms in west el paso.
police officials say that officers received a call about possible criminal trespassing in a vacant apartment. inside, police officials say that officers found 24-year-old efrain rivera iii and 22-year-old dominick giangrossi.
when the pair walked out of the apartment one of the officers deployed a "less-than-lethal" weapon. the officers told rivera and giangrossi to surrender, but police say rivera threw a rock at one of the officers. that officer fired at rivera, injuring him. rivera then tried to run away, according to police. the pair were eventually captured and while giangrossi was taken into custody, police took river to an area hospital for gunshot wound treatment.
officers booked giangrossi into the el paso county detention facility immediately and booked rivera once he was released from the hospital.
officials charged rivera with two counts of aggravated assault against a public servant, criminal mischief, and criminal trespass. they charged giangrossi with criminal mischief, resisting arrest, and criminal trespass.
"this case continues to be investigated concurrently by the crimes against persons unit, el paso police internal affairs, and the texas rangers from the department of public safety," police officials said in a statement thursday morning.
###
more-commendations-at-photo-exhibition-day-2: 
the ongoing punch’s 50th anniversary photo exhibition holding at the alliance francaise de lagos/mike adenuga centre in ikoyi, lagos, attracted more visitors on thursday, being the second day.
the visitors, on the second day of the three-day photo exhibition which opened on wednesday, were full of glowing words for punch’s quality journalism reflected in the iconic photographs on display.
most visitors who spoke to our correspondents said many of the photographs, selected from punch’s rich archive, evoked old memories and gave them a sense of nostalgia.
the photo exhibition, scheduled to end today (friday), showcased 50 of punch’s iconic photographs that tell the rich history of nigeria and her people and how the media house has been a major part of the country’s history.
a switzerland-based finance expert, paul agbaje, who visited the exhibition on thursday, said the photos transported him back in time.
agbaje said, “it is a great exhibition, and the pictures have transported me back in time. it was great to see how these pictures captured the history of the past years, and it is a great initiative, and i am glad to have come.”
similarly, a policy analyst, magnus oniyide, said, “the photographs are brilliant, impressive impressions of the narratives about nigeria over the years.”
a business executive, tolu pinhero, said she developed a bond with the punch through her late father. she added that the newspaper had remained consistent in its unbiased reportage of events in the country.
she said, “i came to this exhibition because my father was a former employee at punch, which has connected me with punch.
“over the years, punch has been consistent in producing quality content. initially, i was expecting to see photographs of how punch has grown over the years, but what i saw are captions of what punch has captured and published over the years. the pictures are very interesting.”
the executive director/editor of pm news, kunle ajibade, lauded the punch for its great work in the media industry, which he said he reflected in the exhibited photos.
ajibade said, “i have been a committed reader of punch, and as a media person, i am fascinated by its history. this exhibition is a wonderful one in many ways because it shows what punch has been doing in panoramic ways over the years.
“if you check all the pictures, you will see a representation of what the newspaper has stood for since its beginning and a very interesting story of punch through the various selections.”
some of the other dignitaries who visited the exhibition on thursday include a former editor of the punch, alhaji najim jimoh; a former editor of this day, mr bolaji adebiyi; executive secretary, newspapers proprietors’ association of nigeria, mr feyi smith and the provost, nigerian institute of journalism, mr gbenga adefaye, among others.
among the eminent personalities that graced the opening ceremony of the photo exhibition on wednesday were a veteran journalist and former governor of ogun state, chief olusegun osoba; the chairman and publisher of the guardian newspapers limited, lady maiden ibru; the governor of enugu state, mr peter mbah, represented by the state’s commissioner for information, aka eze aka.
others were consul general/liason officer, sierra leone high commission, ms. beatrice kallay; consul general of ghana in lagos, ms. samata gifty bukari; habib haruna, former chief press secretary to ex-lagos governor, akinwunmi ambode; and the managing director and editor-in-chief of telegraph newspapers, mr ayodele aminu.
in his remarks, punch managing director and editor-in-chief, adeyeye joseph, said the exhibition represented a tribute to the media house’s legacy and nigeria’s enduring spirit.
he added that the exhibition portrayed the historical significance which provided an alternative to history for people who were still interested in politics to get familiar with the twists and turns of the nation’s history.
joseph said, “our job essentially is to inform, educate and, in the case of punch, also to entertain. and when you look at the pictures here, we have a collection of photographs that do exactly that.
“for example, we have a photograph of president bola tinubu, showing his prime some years back as part of a very strong anti-military and pro-democratic movement. we also see photographs of carnivals in lagos and calabar that entertain.
“it has a corporate significance for us in punch because some of the photographs also tell our personal, peculiar story about the evolution of our brand from a lively paper for lively minds, to the most widely read newspaper in nigeria.”
###
ADIB-shareholders-approve-dividend-of-71-fils-per-share-for-2023-at-AGM: 
(menafn- edelman) abu dhabi islamic bank (adib) a leading financial institution, has announced that its general assembly has approved a cash dividend of aed 2.595 billion, 71 fils per share for the fiscal year ending december 31, 2023. this represents an increase from 49 fils per share in 2022 and constitutes 49 percent of the bank's net profit for the year.
additionally, adib achieved a record return on equity (roe) of 27.1%, demonstrating the bank's strong momentum in its core operations, bolstered by a robust and resilient local economy, alongside its commitment to transformative initiatives. at the meeting, the adib general assembly also approved the board of directors' report, the auditors' report, and the financial statements for the year 2023.
commenting on the bank's performance in the annual report, jawaan awaidha suhail al khaili, adib's chairman, said: “adib achieved exceptional results in 2023, surpassing the aed 5 billion milestone in net profit. this notable increase in profitability, coupled with our robust capital position, has enabled us to propose an enhanced dividend payout of 71 fils per share. we express our heartfelt gratitude to our shareholders for their unwavering support and confidence in our vision. our strategic initiatives, including income diversification, expansion into new segments, and upholding asset quality, have contributed to an impressive return on equity (roe) of 27%. in line with our strategic plan, adib is committed to esg principles, poised to fully integrate sustainability into our operations, following the uae's year of sustainability extension. we look forward to collaborating with stakeholders to pioneer innovative solutions, fostering economic and sustainable development for a prosperous future.”
nasser al awadhi, adib's group chief executive officer, added: "adib achieved remarkable financial results in 2023, with net profit soaring by 45% to a historic high of aed 5.25 billion, driven by a 36% revenue growth. this success was fueled by increased transaction volumes and improved margins, supported by an efficient funding base and higher yields. our strong market position and digital initiatives enabled us to attract over 206,000 new customers. we expanded customers' financing by aed 8 billion, adhering to our market share growth strategy. looking ahead to 2024, amidst global economic uncertainties, we are confident that our strong financial position, focus on innovation will empower us to seize opportunities, identify new growth areas, and maintain broad-based income momentum across the group.”
adib achieved record-breaking performance in 2023, with significant growth across all its businesses. the market share expanded, while customer finance and income increased. enhancing its digital presence, the bank saw a rise in actively digital customers through improvements to its mobile app. moreover, in line with sustainability goals, adib strengthened its esg strategy and governance framework to drive its sustainable banking agenda for the next three years, underscoring its dedication to growth, performance, and innovation.
menafn02032024003109013942id1107925011
legal disclaimer:
menafn provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind. we do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article. if you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.
###
: 
paris — a barn was destroyed by fire friday morning at 294 hebron road,
the structure was across from halls pond road on route 119.
norway, west paris, oxford, hebron and buckfield fire departments assisted the paris fire department. pace ambulance was also called to the scene.
hebron road had been shut down due to a vehicle accident just south of the scene.
no other information was available friday evening.
comments are not available on this story.
send questions/comments to the editors.
###
susanna-reid-gmb-prince-harry-debate-backlash: 
gmb's susanna reid hits back as she branded 'ridiculous' over prince harry debate
good morning britain presenter susanna reid found herself at the centre of backlash after a discussion about prince harry and prince william on the show.
good morning britain star susanna reid has hit back at a disgruntled viewer who branded her views on prince harry's court case "ridiculous". alongside richard madeley, susanna and guests shared their thoughts on the father-of-two's personal security appeal and prince william's absence from his godfather prince constantine of greece's memorial service during wednesday's edition.
ahead of harry losing his high court challenge, the presenter spoke up for up for him, sharing: "he's always going to be at risk here. i don't understand why he doesn't still have the same level of security." elsewhere during the debate, she said: "i don't think [the way he withdrew from the royal family or his actions] changes in any way the risk to him. in fact, i think he's probably at more risk."
she echoed her words later on, adding: "my view on this - he's always gonna be at risk here. i don't understand why he doesn't still have the same level of security. the argument against is he's chosen to leave and therefore he shouldn't [have the same level]."
good morning britain shared the moment on their official platform x page, which sparked many of their followers to comment. amongst the mixed views, one savagely blasted susanna's views.
they wrote: "oh do shut it, susanna. are you after some kind of honour from the palace and don't dare say anything bad! you are ridiculous!" after the host reshared the tweet on her page, the same user wrote: "and thanks for the repost suzie... you only did that for people to come to your defence. pathetic. you make out you're not bothered by comments but that proves you are. and all the simps take the bait!"
hitting back, susanna replied: "i don’t need people coming to my defence angelica. i reposted it as an example of the strength of views."
others shared their thoughts on the topic, as another commented: "why’s he being treated different … prince harry is still royalty and should not be treated any different to the rest of the royal family! this country has gone to the dogs."
a third typed: "he’s not a working royal, why on can’t he just give it a rest!!"
"should be paying for his own if he's not a working royal. end of," a fourth ranted.
don't miss...
si king's tv future as hairy bikers star says he can't go on without dave myers [exclusive]
the chase fans ask 'what's the point' after itv airs 'worst ever' performance [reaction]
antiques roadshow expert refuses to value item and shares heartbreaking reason [revealed]
prince harry will learn this morning if he has won a high court challenge against the home office over a decision to change the level of his personal security when he visits the uk.@susannareid100 | @richardm56 | @kevin_maguire | @toryboypierce pic.twitter.com/dobb4bi3vt— good morning britain (@gmb) february 28, 2024
also as part of the royal discussion, the pair and guests discussed prince williams' sudden absence from his godfather's memorial service.
the prince of wales was due to give a reading at the event for prince constantine of greece but pulled out due to a "personal matter".
susanna said she understood why people may question why there were discussing a personal topic and went on to say: "i have always said even though they are very public, and i say this about harry and meghan [markle], as well, to a lot of backlash, just because they are very famous high profile figures who do a lot of public stuff doesn't mean they don't have a right to privacy.
"i do not agree with this thing that once you turn the publicity tab on, you don't get to turn it off.
"because i think absolutely when it comes to any of us, we're on television - i don't want all my private stuff out there and... people say, 'well, you're on television'."
kensington palace have refused to elaborate further on the reasons for his no show but said his wife, the princess of wales, who is recovering from abdominal surgery, continues to be doing well.
prince william is said to have personally called the greek royal family to let them know he was unable to attend.
good morning britain airs weekdays from 6am on itv and itvx.
###
